DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS
Doctrine and Covenants 1:1     Hearken, O ye people of my church, saith the voice of him who dwells on high, and whose eyes are upon all men; yea, verily I say: Hearken ye people from afar; and ye that are upon the islands of the sea, listen together.
Doctrine and Covenants 1:2     For verily the voice of the Lord is unto all men, and there is none to escape; and there is no eye that shall not see, neither ear that shall not hear, neither heart that shall not be penetrated.
Doctrine and Covenants 1:3     And the rebellious shall be pierced with much sorrow; for their iniquities shall be spoken upon the housetops, and their secret acts shall be revealed.
Doctrine and Covenants 1:4     And the voice of warning shall be unto all people, by the mouths of my disciples, whom I have chosen in these last days.
Doctrine and Covenants 1:5     And they shall go forth and none shall stay them, for I the Lord have commanded them.
Doctrine and Covenants 1:6     Behold, this is mine authority, and the authority of my servants, and my preface unto the book of my commandments, which I have given them to publish unto you, O inhabitants of the earth.
Doctrine and Covenants 1:7     Wherefore, fear and tremble, O ye people, for what I the Lord have decreed in them shall be fulfilled.
Doctrine and Covenants 1:8     And verily I say unto you, that they who go forth, bearing these tidings unto the inhabitants of the earth, to them is power given to seal both on earth and in heaven, the unbelieving and rebellious;
Doctrine and Covenants 1:9     Yea, verily, to seal them up unto the day when the wrath of God shall be poured out upon the wicked without measure--
Doctrine and Covenants 1:10     Unto the day when the Lord shall come to recompense unto every man according to his work, and measure to every man according to the measure which he has measured to his fellow man.
Doctrine and Covenants 1:11     Wherefore the voice of the Lord is unto the ends of the earth, that all that will hear may hear:
Doctrine and Covenants 1:12     Prepare ye, prepare ye for that which is to come, for the Lord is nigh;
Doctrine and Covenants 1:13     And the anger of the Lord is kindled, and his sword is bathed in heaven, and it shall fall upon the inhabitants of the earth.
Doctrine and Covenants 1:14     And the arm of the Lord shall be revealed; and the day cometh that they who will not hear the voice of the Lord, neither the voice of his servants, neither give heed to the words of the prophets and apostles, shall be cut off from among the people;
Doctrine and Covenants 1:15     For they have strayed from mine ordinances, and have broken mine everlasting covenant;
Doctrine and Covenants 1:16     They seek not the Lord to establish his righteousness, but every man walketh in his own way, and after the image of his own god, whose image is in the likeness of the world, and whose substance is that of an idol, which waxeth old and shall perish in Babylon, even Babylon the great, which shall fall.
Doctrine and Covenants 1:17     Wherefore, I the Lord, knowing the calamity which should come upon the inhabitants of the earth, called upon my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., and spake unto him from heaven, and gave him commandments;
Doctrine and Covenants 1:18     And also gave commandments to others, that they should proclaim these things unto the world; and all this that it might be fulfilled, which was written by the prophets--
Doctrine and Covenants 1:19     The weak things of the world shall come forth and break down the mighty and strong ones, that man should not counsel his fellow man, neither trust in the arm of flesh--
Doctrine and Covenants 1:20     But that every man might speak in the name of God the Lord, even the Savior of the world;
Doctrine and Covenants 1:21     That faith also might increase in the earth;
Doctrine and Covenants 1:22     That mine everlasting covenant might be established;
Doctrine and Covenants 1:23     That the fulness of my gospel might be proclaimed by the weak and the simple unto the ends of the world, and before kings and rulers.
Doctrine and Covenants 1:24     Behold, I am God and have spoken it; these commandments are of me, and were given unto my servants in their weakness, after the manner of their language, that they might come to understanding.
Doctrine and Covenants 1:25     And inasmuch as they erred it might be made known;
Doctrine and Covenants 1:26     And inasmuch as they sought wisdom they might be instructed;
Doctrine and Covenants 1:27     And inasmuch as they sinned they might be chastened, that they might repent;
Doctrine and Covenants 1:28     And inasmuch as they were humble they might be made strong, and blessed from on high, and receive knowledge from time to time.
Doctrine and Covenants 1:29     And after having received the record of the Nephites, yea, even my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., might have power to translate through the mercy of God, by the power of God, the Book of Mormon.
Doctrine and Covenants 1:30     And also those to whom these commandments were given, might have power to lay the foundation of this church, and to bring it forth out of obscurity and out of darkness, the only true and living church upon the face of the whole earth, with which I, the Lord, am well pleased, speaking unto the church collectively and not individually--
Doctrine and Covenants 1:31     For I the Lord cannot look upon sin with the least degree of allowance;
Doctrine and Covenants 1:32     Nevertheless, he that repents and does the commandments of the Lord shall be forgiven;
Doctrine and Covenants 1:33     And he that repents not, from him shall be taken even the light which he has received; for my Spirit shall not always strive with man, saith the Lord of Hosts.
Doctrine and Covenants 1:34     And again, verily I say unto you, O inhabitants of the earth: I the Lord am willing to make these things known unto all flesh;
Doctrine and Covenants 1:35     For I am no respecter of persons, and will that all men shall know that the day speedily cometh; the hour is not yet, but is nigh at hand, when peace shall be taken from the earth, and the devil shall have power over his own dominion.
Doctrine and Covenants 1:36     And also the Lord shall have power over his saints, and shall reign in their midst, and shall come down in judgment upon Idumea, or the world.
Doctrine and Covenants 1:37     Search these commandments, for they are true and faithful, and the prophecies and promises which are in them shall all be fulfilled.
Doctrine and Covenants 1:38     What I the Lord have spoken, I have spoken, and I excuse not myself; and though the heavens and the earth pass away, my word shall not pass away, but shall all be fulfilled, whether by mine own voice or by the voice of my servants, it is the same.
Doctrine and Covenants 1:39     For behold, and lo, the Lord is God, and the Spirit beareth record, and the record is true, and the truth abideth forever and ever. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 2:1     Behold, I will reveal unto you the Priesthood, by the hand of Elijah the prophet, before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 2:2     And he shall plant in the hearts of the children the promises made to the fathers, and the hearts of the children shall turn to their fathers.
Doctrine and Covenants 2:3     If it were not so, the whole earth would be utterly wasted at his coming.
Doctrine and Covenants 3:1     The works, and the designs, and the purposes of God cannot be frustrated, neither can they come to naught.
Doctrine and Covenants 3:2     For God doth not walk in crooked paths, neither doth he turn to the right hand nor to the left, neither doth he vary from that which he hath said, therefore his paths are straight, and his course is one eternal round.
Doctrine and Covenants 3:3     Remember, remember that it is not the work of God that is frustrated, but the work of men;
Doctrine and Covenants 3:4     For although a man may have many revelations, and have power to do many mighty works, yet if he boasts in his own strength, and sets at naught the counsels of God, and follows after the dictates of his own will and carnal desires, he must fall and incur the vengeance of a just God upon him.
Doctrine and Covenants 3:5     Behold, you have been entrusted with these things, but how strict were your commandments; and remember also the promises which were made to you, if you did not transgress them.
Doctrine and Covenants 3:6     And behold, how oft you have transgressed the commandments and the laws of God, and have gone on in the persuasions of men.
Doctrine and Covenants 3:7     For, behold, you should not have feared man more than God. Although men set at naught the counsels of God, and despise his words--
Doctrine and Covenants 3:8     Yet you should have been faithful; and he would have extended his arm and supported you against all the fiery darts of the adversary; and he would have been with you in every time of trouble.
Doctrine and Covenants 3:9     Behold, thou art Joseph, and thou wast chosen to do the work of the Lord, but because of transgression, if thou art not aware thou wilt fall.
Doctrine and Covenants 3:10     But remember, God is merciful; therefore, repent of that which thou hast done which is contrary to the commandment which I gave you, and thou art still chosen, and art again called to the work;
Doctrine and Covenants 3:11     Except thou do this, thou shalt be delivered up and become as other men, and have no more gift.
Doctrine and Covenants 3:12     And when thou deliveredst up that which God had given thee sight and power to translate, thou deliveredst up that which was sacred into the hands of a wicked man,
Doctrine and Covenants 3:13     Who has set at naught the counsels of God, and has broken the most sacred promises which were made before God, and has depended upon his own judgment and boasted in his own wisdom.
Doctrine and Covenants 3:14     And this is the reason that thou hast lost thy privileges for a season--
Doctrine and Covenants 3:15     For thou hast suffered the counsel of thy director to be trampled upon from the beginning.
Doctrine and Covenants 3:16     Nevertheless, my work shall go forth, for inasmuch as the knowledge of a Savior has come unto the world, through the testimony of the Jews, even so shall the knowledge of a Savior come unto my people--
Doctrine and Covenants 3:17     And to the Nephites, and the Jacobites, and the Josephites, and the Zoramites, through the testimony of their fathers--
Doctrine and Covenants 3:18     And this testimony shall come to the knowledge of the Lamanites, and the Lemuelites, and the Ishmaelites, who dwindled in unbelief because of the iniquity of their fathers, whom the Lord has suffered to destroy their brethren the Nephites, because of their iniquities and their abominations.
Doctrine and Covenants 3:19     And for this very purpose are these plates preserved, which contain these records--that the promises of the Lord might be fulfilled, which he made to his people;
Doctrine and Covenants 3:20     And that the Lamanites might come to the knowledge of their fathers, and that they might know the promises of the Lord, and that they may believe the gospel and rely upon the merits of Jesus Christ, and be glorified through faith in his name, and that through their repentance they might be saved. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 4:1     Now behold, a marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men.
Doctrine and Covenants 4:2     Therefore, O ye that embark in the service of God, see that ye serve him with all your heart, might, mind and strength, that ye may stand blameless before God at the last day.
Doctrine and Covenants 4:3     Therefore, if ye have desires to serve God ye are called to the work;
Doctrine and Covenants 4:4     For behold the field is white already to harvest; and lo, he that thrusteth in his sickle with his might, the same layeth up in store that he perisheth not, but bringeth salvation to his soul;
Doctrine and Covenants 4:5     And faith, hope, charity and love, with an eye single to the glory of God, qualify him for the work.
Doctrine and Covenants 4:6     Remember faith, virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, brotherly kindness, godliness, charity, humility, diligence.
Doctrine and Covenants 4:7     Ask, and ye shall receive; knock, and it shall be opened unto you. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 5:1     Behold, I say unto you, that as my servant Martin Harris has desired a witness at my hand, that you, my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., have got the plates of which you have testified and borne record that you have received of me;
Doctrine and Covenants 5:2     And now, behold, this shall you say unto him--he who spake unto you, said unto you: I, the Lord, am God, and have given these things unto you, my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., and have commanded you that you should stand as a witness of these things;
Doctrine and Covenants 5:3     And I have caused you that you should enter into a covenant with me, that you should not show them except to those persons to whom I commanded you; and you have no power over them except I grant it unto you.
Doctrine and Covenants 5:4     And you have a gift to translate the plates; and this is the first gift that I bestowed upon you; and I have commanded that you should pretend to no other gift until my purpose is fulfilled in this; for I will grant unto you no other gift until it is finished.
Doctrine and Covenants 5:5     Verily, I say unto you, that woe shall come unto the inhabitants of the earth if they will not hearken unto my words;
Doctrine and Covenants 5:6     For hereafter you shall be ordained and go forth and deliver my words unto the children of men.
Doctrine and Covenants 5:7     Behold, if they will not believe my words, they would not believe you, my servant Joseph, if it were possible that you should show them all these things which I have committed unto you.
Doctrine and Covenants 5:8     Oh, this unbelieving and stiffnecked generation--mine anger is kindled against them.
Doctrine and Covenants 5:9     Behold, verily I say unto you, I have reserved those things which I have entrusted unto you, my servant Joseph, for a wise purpose in me, and it shall be made known unto future generations;
Doctrine and Covenants 5:10     But this generation shall have my word through you;
Doctrine and Covenants 5:11     And in addition to your testimony, the testimony of three of my servants, whom I shall call and ordain, unto whom I will show these things, and they shall go forth with my words that are given through you.
Doctrine and Covenants 5:12     Yea, they shall know of a surety that these things are true, for from heaven will I declare it unto them.
Doctrine and Covenants 5:13     I will give them power that they may behold and view these things as they are;
Doctrine and Covenants 5:14     And to none else will I grant this power, to receive this same testimony among this generation, in this the beginning of the rising up and the coming forth of my church out of the wilderness--clear as the moon, and fair as the sun, and terrible as an army with banners.
Doctrine and Covenants 5:15     And the testimony of three witnesses will I send forth of my word.
Doctrine and Covenants 5:16     And behold, whosoever believeth on my words, them will I visit with the manifestation of my Spirit; and they shall be born of me, even of water and of the Spirit--
Doctrine and Covenants 5:17     And you must wait yet a little while, for ye are not yet ordained--
Doctrine and Covenants 5:18     And their testimony shall also go forth unto the condemnation of this generation if they harden their hearts against them;
Doctrine and Covenants 5:19     For a desolating scourge shall go forth among the inhabitants of the earth, and shall continue to be poured out from time to time, if they repent not, until the earth is empty, and the inhabitants thereof are consumed away and utterly destroyed by the brightness of my coming.
Doctrine and Covenants 5:20     Behold, I tell you these things, even as I also told the people of the destruction of Jerusalem; and my word shall be verified at this time as it hath hitherto been verified.
Doctrine and Covenants 5:21     And now I command you, my servant Joseph, to repent and walk more uprightly before me, and to yield to the persuasions of men no more;
Doctrine and Covenants 5:22     And that you be firm in keeping the commandments wherewith I have commanded you; and if you do this, behold I grant unto you eternal life, even if you should be slain.
Doctrine and Covenants 5:23     And now, again, I speak unto you, my servant Joseph, concerning the man that desires the witness--
Doctrine and Covenants 5:24     Behold, I say unto him, he exalts himself and does not humble himself sufficiently before me; but if he will bow down before me, and humble himself in mighty prayer and faith, in the sincerity of his heart, then will I grant unto him a view of the things which he desires to see.
Doctrine and Covenants 5:25     And then he shall say unto the people of this generation: Behold, I have seen the things which the Lord hath shown unto Joseph Smith, Jun., and I know of a surety that they are true, for I have seen them, for they have been shown unto me by the power of God and not of man.
Doctrine and Covenants 5:26     And I the Lord command him, my servant Martin Harris, that he shall say no more unto them concerning these things, except he shall say: I have seen them, and they have been shown unto me by the power of God; and these are the words which he shall say.
Doctrine and Covenants 5:27     But if he deny this he will break the covenant which he has before covenanted with me, and behold, he is condemned.
Doctrine and Covenants 5:28     And now, except he humble himself and acknowledge unto me the things that he has done which are wrong, and covenant with me that he will keep my commandments, and exercise faith in me, behold, I say unto him, he shall have no such views, for I will grant unto him no views of the things of which I have spoken.
Doctrine and Covenants 5:29     And if this be the case, I command you, my servant Joseph, that you shall say unto him, that he shall do no more, nor trouble me any more concerning this matter.
Doctrine and Covenants 5:30     And if this be the case, behold, I say unto thee Joseph, when thou hast translated a few more pages thou shalt stop for a season, even until I command thee again; then thou mayest translate again.
Doctrine and Covenants 5:31     And except thou do this, behold, thou shalt have no more gift, and I will take away the things which I have entrusted with thee.
Doctrine and Covenants 5:32     And now, because I foresee the lying in wait to destroy thee, yea, I foresee that if my servant Martin Harris humbleth not himself and receive a witness from my hand, that he will fall into transgression;
Doctrine and Covenants 5:33     And there are many that lie in wait to destroy thee from off the face of the earth; and for this cause, that thy days may be prolonged, I have given unto thee these commandments.
Doctrine and Covenants 5:34     Yea, for this cause I have said: Stop, and stand still until I command thee, and I will provide means whereby thou mayest accomplish the thing which I have commanded thee.
Doctrine and Covenants 5:35     And if thou art faithful in keeping my commandments, thou shalt be lifted up at the last day. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 6:1     A great and marvelous work is about to come forth unto the children of men.
Doctrine and Covenants 6:2     Behold, I am God; give heed unto my word, which is quick and powerful, sharper than a two-edged sword, to the dividing asunder of both joints and marrow; therefore give heed unto my words.
Doctrine and Covenants 6:3     Behold, the field is white already to harvest; therefore, whoso desireth to reap, let him thrust in his sickle with his might, and reap while the day lasts, that he may treasure up for his soul everlasting salvation in the kingdom of God.
Doctrine and Covenants 6:4     Yea, whosoever will thrust in his sickle and reap, the same is called of God.
Doctrine and Covenants 6:5     Therefore, if you will ask of me you shall receive; if you will knock it shall be opened unto you.
Doctrine and Covenants 6:6     Now, as you have asked, behold, I say unto you, keep my commandments, and seek to bring forth and establish the cause of Zion;
Doctrine and Covenants 6:7     Seek not for riches but for wisdom, and behold, the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto you, and then shall you be made rich. Behold, he that hath eternal life is rich.
Doctrine and Covenants 6:8     Verily, verily, I say unto you, even as you desire of me so it shall be unto you; and if you desire, you shall be the means of doing much good in this generation.
Doctrine and Covenants 6:9     Say nothing but repentance unto this generation; keep my commandments, and assist to bring forth my work, according to my commandments, and you shall be blessed.
Doctrine and Covenants 6:10     Behold thou hast a gift, and blessed art thou because of thy gift. Remember it is sacred and cometh from above--
Doctrine and Covenants 6:11     And if thou wilt inquire, thou shalt know mysteries which are great and marvelous; therefore thou shalt exercise thy gift, that thou mayest find out mysteries, that thou mayest bring many to the knowledge of the truth, yea, convince them of the error of their ways.
Doctrine and Covenants 6:12     Make not thy gift known unto any save it be those who are of thy faith. Trifle not with sacred things.
Doctrine and Covenants 6:13     If thou wilt do good, yea, and hold out faithful to the end, thou shalt be saved in the kingdom of God, which is the greatest of all the gifts of God; for there is no gift greater than the gift of salvation.
Doctrine and Covenants 6:14     Verily, verily, I say unto thee, blessed art thou for what thou hast done; for thou hast inquired of me, and behold, as often as thou hast inquired thou hast received instruction of my Spirit. If it had not been so, thou wouldst not have come to the place where thou art at this time.
Doctrine and Covenants 6:15     Behold, thou knowest that thou hast inquired of me and I did enlighten thy mind; and now I tell thee these things that thou mayest know that thou hast been enlightened by the Spirit of truth;
Doctrine and Covenants 6:16     Yea, I tell thee, that thou mayest know that there is none else save God that knowest thy thoughts and the intents of thy heart.
Doctrine and Covenants 6:17     I tell thee these things as a witness unto thee--that the words or the work which thou hast been writing are true.
Doctrine and Covenants 6:18     Therefore be diligent; stand by my servant Joseph, faithfully, in whatsoever difficult circumstances he may be for the word's sake.
Doctrine and Covenants 6:19     Admonish him in his faults, and also receive admonition of him. Be patient; be sober; be temperate; have patience, faith, hope and charity.
Doctrine and Covenants 6:20     Behold, thou art Oliver, and I have spoken unto thee because of thy desires; therefore treasure up these words in thy heart. Be faithful and diligent in keeping the commandments of God, and I will encircle thee in the arms of my love.
Doctrine and Covenants 6:21     Behold, I am Jesus Christ, the Son of God. I am the same that came unto mine own, and mine own received me not. I am the light which shineth in darkness, and the darkness comprehendeth it not.
Doctrine and Covenants 6:22     Verily, verily, I say unto you, if you desire a further witness, cast your mind upon the night that you cried unto me in your heart, that you might know concerning the truth of these things.
Doctrine and Covenants 6:23     Did I not speak peace to your mind concerning the matter? What greater witness can you have than from God?
Doctrine and Covenants 6:24     And now, behold, you have received a witness; for if I have told you things which no man knoweth have you not received a witness?
Doctrine and Covenants 6:25     And, behold, I grant unto you a gift, if you desire of me, to translate, even as my servant Joseph.
Doctrine and Covenants 6:26     Verily, verily, I say unto you, that there are records which contain much of my gospel, which have been kept back because of the wickedness of the people;
Doctrine and Covenants 6:27     And now I command you, that if you have good desires--a desire to lay up treasures for yourself in heaven--then shall you assist in bringing to light, with your gift, those parts of my scriptures which have been hidden because of iniquity.
Doctrine and Covenants 6:28     And now, behold, I give unto you, and also unto my servant Joseph, the keys of this gift, which shall bring to light this ministry; and in the mouth of two or three witnesses shall every word be established.
Doctrine and Covenants 6:29     Verily, verily, I say unto you, if they reject my words, and this part of my gospel and ministry, blessed are ye, for they can do no more unto you than unto me.
Doctrine and Covenants 6:30     And even if they do unto you even as they have done unto me, blessed are ye, for you shall dwell with me in glory.
Doctrine and Covenants 6:31     But if they reject not my words, which shall be established by the testimony which shall be given, blessed are they, and then shall ye have joy in the fruit of your labors.
Doctrine and Covenants 6:32     Verily, verily, I say unto you, as I said unto my disciples, where two or three are gathered together in my name, as touching one thing, behold, there will I be in the midst of them--even so am I in the midst of you.
Doctrine and Covenants 6:33     Fear not to do good, my sons, for whatsoever ye sow, that shall ye also reap; therefore, if ye sow good ye shall also reap good for your reward.
Doctrine and Covenants 6:34     Therefore, fear not, little flock; do good; let earth and hell combine against you, for if ye are built upon my rock, they cannot prevail.
Doctrine and Covenants 6:35     Behold, I do not condemn you; go your ways and sin no more; perform with soberness the work which I have commanded you.
Doctrine and Covenants 6:36     Look unto me in every thought; doubt not, fear not.
Doctrine and Covenants 6:37     Behold the wounds which pierced my side, and also the prints of the nails in my hands and feet; be faithful, keep my commandments, and ye shall inherit the kingdom of heaven. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 7:1     And the Lord said unto me: John, my beloved, what desirest thou? For if you shall ask what you will, it shall be granted unto you.
Doctrine and Covenants 7:2     And I said unto him: Lord, give unto me power over death, that I may live and bring souls unto thee.
Doctrine and Covenants 7:3     And the Lord said unto me: Verily, verily, I say unto thee, because thou desirest this thou shalt tarry until I come in my glory, and shalt prophesy before nations, kindreds, tongues and people.
Doctrine and Covenants 7:4     And for this cause the Lord said unto Peter: If I will that he tarry till I come, what is that to thee? For he desired of me that he might bring souls unto me, but thou desiredst that thou mightest speedily come unto me in my kingdom.
Doctrine and Covenants 7:5     I say unto thee, Peter, this was a good desire; but my beloved has desired that he might do more, or a greater work yet among men than what he has before done.
Doctrine and Covenants 7:6     Yea, he has undertaken a greater work; therefore I will make him as flaming fire and a ministering angel; he shall minister for those who shall be heirs of salvation who dwell on the earth.
Doctrine and Covenants 7:7     And I will make thee to minister for him and for thy brother James; and unto you three I will give this power and the keys of this ministry until I come.
Doctrine and Covenants 7:8     Verily I say unto you, ye shall both have according to your desires, for ye both joy in that which ye have desired.
Doctrine and Covenants 8:1     Oliver Cowdery, verily, verily, I say unto you, that assuredly as the Lord liveth, who is your God and your Redeemer, even so surely shall you receive a knowledge of whatsoever things you shall ask in faith, with an honest heart, believing that you shall receive a knowledge concerning the engravings of old records, which are ancient, which contain those parts of my scripture of which has been spoken by the manifestation of my Spirit.
Doctrine and Covenants 8:2     Yea, behold, I will tell you in your mind and in your heart, by the Holy Ghost, which shall come upon you and which shall dwell in your heart.
Doctrine and Covenants 8:3     Now, behold, this is the spirit of revelation; behold, this is the spirit by which Moses brought the children of Israel through the Red Sea on dry ground.
Doctrine and Covenants 8:4     Therefore this is thy gift; apply unto it, and blessed art thou, for it shall deliver you out of the hands of your enemies, when, if it were not so, they would slay you and bring your soul to destruction.
Doctrine and Covenants 8:5     Oh, remember these words, and keep my commandments. Remember, this is your gift.
Doctrine and Covenants 8:6     Now this is not all thy gift; for you have another gift, which is the gift of Aaron; behold, it has told you many things;
Doctrine and Covenants 8:7     Behold, there is no other power, save the power of God, that can cause this gift of Aaron to be with you.
Doctrine and Covenants 8:8     Therefore, doubt not, for it is the gift of God; and you shall hold it in your hands, and do marvelous works; and no power shall be able to take it away out of your hands, for it is the work of God.
Doctrine and Covenants 8:9     And, therefore, whatsoever you shall ask me to tell you by that means, that will I grant unto you, and you shall have knowledge concerning it.
Doctrine and Covenants 8:10     Remember that without faith you can do nothing; therefore ask in faith. Trifle not with these things; do not ask for that which you ought not.
Doctrine and Covenants 8:11     Ask that you may know the mysteries of God, and that you may translate and receive knowledge from all those ancient records which have been hid up, that are sacred; and according to your faith shall it be done unto you.
Doctrine and Covenants 8:12     Behold, it is I that have spoken it; and I am the same that spake unto you from the beginning. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 9:1     Behold, I say unto you, my son, that because you did not translate according to that which you desired of me, and did commence again to write for my servant, Joseph Smith, Jun., even so I would that ye should continue until you have finished this record, which I have entrusted unto him.
Doctrine and Covenants 9:2     And then, behold, other records have I, that I will give unto you power that you may assist to translate.
Doctrine and Covenants 9:3     Be patient, my son, for it is wisdom in me, and it is not expedient that you should translate at this present time.
Doctrine and Covenants 9:4     Behold, the work which you are called to do is to write for my servant Joseph.
Doctrine and Covenants 9:5     And, behold, it is because that you did not continue as you commenced, when you began to translate, that I have taken away this privilege from you.
Doctrine and Covenants 9:6     Do not murmur, my son, for it is wisdom in me that I have dealt with you after this manner.
Doctrine and Covenants 9:7     Behold, you have not understood; you have supposed that I would give it unto you, when you took no thought save it was to ask me.
Doctrine and Covenants 9:8     But, behold, I say unto you, that you must study it out in your mind; then you must ask me if it be right, and if it is right I will cause that your bosom shall burn within you; therefore, you shall feel that it is right.
Doctrine and Covenants 9:9     But if it be not right you shall have no such feelings, but you shall have a stupor of thought that shall cause you to forget the thing which is wrong; therefore, you cannot write that which is sacred save it be given you from me.
Doctrine and Covenants 9:10     Now, if you had known this you could have translated; nevertheless, it is not expedient that you should translate now.
Doctrine and Covenants 9:11     Behold, it was expedient when you commenced; but you feared, and the time is past, and it is not expedient now;
Doctrine and Covenants 9:12     For, do you not behold that I have given unto my servant Joseph sufficient strength, whereby it is made up? And neither of you have I condemned.
Doctrine and Covenants 9:13     Do this thing which I have commanded you, and you shall prosper. Be faithful, and yield to no temptation.
Doctrine and Covenants 9:14     Stand fast in the work wherewith I have called you, and a hair of your head shall not be lost, and you shall be lifted up at the last day. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:1     Now, behold, I say unto you, that because you delivered up those writings which you had power given unto you to translate by the means of the Urim and Thummim, into the hands of a wicked man, you have lost them.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:2     And you also lost your gift at the same time, and your mind became darkened.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:3     Nevertheless, it is now restored unto you again; therefore see that you are faithful and continue on unto the finishing of the remainder of the work of translation as you have begun.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:4     Do not run faster or labor more than you have strength and means provided to enable you to translate; but be diligent unto the end.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:5     Pray always, that you may come off conqueror; yea, that you may conquer Satan, and that you may escape the hands of the servants of Satan that do uphold his work.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:6     Behold, they have sought to destroy you; yea, even the man in whom you have trusted has sought to destroy you.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:7     And for this cause I said that he is a wicked man, for he has sought to take away the things wherewith you have been entrusted; and he has also sought to destroy your gift.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:8     And because you have delivered the writings into his hands, behold, wicked men have taken them from you.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:9     Therefore, you have delivered them up, yea, that which was sacred, unto wickedness.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:10     And, behold, Satan hath put it into their hearts to alter the words which you have caused to be written, or which you have translated, which have gone out of your hands.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:11     And behold, I say unto you, that because they have altered the words, they read contrary from that which you translated and caused to be written;
Doctrine and Covenants 10:12     And, on this wise, the devil has sought to lay a cunning plan, that he may destroy this work;
Doctrine and Covenants 10:13     For he hath put into their hearts to do this, that by lying they may say they have caught you in the words which you have pretended to translate.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:14     Verily, I say unto you, that I will not suffer that Satan shall accomplish his evil design in this thing.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:15     For behold, he has put it into their hearts to get thee to tempt the Lord thy God, in asking to translate it over again.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:16     And then, behold, they say and think in their hearts--We will see if God has given him power to translate; if so, he will also give him power again;
Doctrine and Covenants 10:17     And if God giveth him power again, or if he translates again, or, in other words, if he bringeth forth the same words, behold, we have the same with us, and we have altered them;
Doctrine and Covenants 10:18     Therefore they will not agree, and we will say that he has lied in his words, and that he has no gift, and that he has no power;
Doctrine and Covenants 10:19     Therefore we will destroy him, and also the work; and we will do this that we may not be ashamed in the end, and that we may get glory of the world.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:20     Verily, verily, I say unto you, that Satan has great hold upon their hearts; he stirreth them up to iniquity against that which is good;
Doctrine and Covenants 10:21     And their hearts are corrupt, and full of wickedness and abominations; and they love darkness rather than light, because their deeds are evil; therefore they will not ask of me.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:22     Satan stirreth them up, that he may lead their souls to destruction.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:23     And thus he has laid a cunning plan, thinking to destroy the work of God; but I will require this at their hands, and it shall turn to their shame and condemnation in the day of judgment.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:24     Yea, he stirreth up their hearts to anger against this work.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:25     Yea, he saith unto them: Deceive and lie in wait to catch, that ye may destroy; behold, this is no harm. And thus he flattereth them, and telleth them that it is no sin to lie that they may catch a man in a lie, that they may destroy him.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:26     And thus he flattereth them, and leadeth them along until he draggeth their souls down to hell; and thus he causeth them to catch themselves in their own snare.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:27     And thus he goeth up and down, to and fro in the earth, seeking to destroy the souls of men.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:28     Verily, verily, I say unto you, wo be unto him that lieth to deceive because he supposeth that another lieth to deceive, for such are not exempt from the justice of God.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:29     Now, behold, they have altered these words, because Satan saith unto them: He hath deceived you--and thus he flattereth them away to do iniquity, to get thee to tempt the Lord thy God.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:30     Behold, I say unto you, that you shall not translate again those words which have gone forth out of your hands;
Doctrine and Covenants 10:31     For, behold, they shall not accomplish their evil designs in lying against those words. For, behold, if you should bring forth the same words they will say that you have lied and that you have pretended to translate, but that you have contradicted yourself.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:32     And, behold, they will publish this, and Satan will harden the hearts of the people to stir them up to anger against you, that they will not believe my words.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:33     Thus Satan thinketh to overpower your testimony in this generation, that the work may not come forth in this generation.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:34     But behold, here is wisdom, and because I show unto you wisdom, and give you commandments concerning these things, what you shall do, show it not unto the world until you have accomplished the work of translation.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:35     Marvel not that I said unto you: Here is wisdom, show it not unto the world--for I said, show it not unto the world, that you may be preserved.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:36     Behold, I do not say that you shall not show it unto the righteous;
Doctrine and Covenants 10:37     But as you cannot always judge the righteous, or as you cannot always tell the wicked from the righteous, therefore I say unto you, hold your peace until I shall see fit to make all things known unto the world concerning the matter.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:38     And now, verily I say unto you, that an account of those things that you have written, which have gone out of your hands, is engraven upon the plates of Nephi;
Doctrine and Covenants 10:39     Yea, and you remember it was said in those writings that a more particular account was given of these things upon the plates of Nephi.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:40     And now, because the account which is engraven upon the plates of Nephi is more particular concerning the things which, in my wisdom, I would bring to the knowledge of the people in this account--
Doctrine and Covenants 10:41     Therefore, you shall translate the engravings which are on the plates of Nephi, down even till you come to the reign of king Benjamin, or until you come to that which you have translated, which you have retained;
Doctrine and Covenants 10:42     And behold, you shall publish it as the record of Nephi; and thus I will confound those who have altered my words.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:43     I will not suffer that they shall destroy my work; yea, I will show unto them that my wisdom is greater than the cunning of the devil.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:44     Behold, they have only got a part, or an abridgment of the account of Nephi.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:45     Behold, there are many things engraven upon the plates of Nephi which do throw greater views upon my gospel; therefore, it is wisdom in me that you should translate this first part of the engravings of Nephi, and send forth in this work.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:46     And, behold, all the remainder of this work does contain all those parts of my gospel which my holy prophets, yea, and also my disciples, desired in their prayers should come forth unto this people.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:47     And I said unto them, that it should be granted unto them according to their faith in their prayers;
Doctrine and Covenants 10:48     Yea, and this was their faith--that my gospel, which I gave unto them that they might preach in their days, might come unto their brethren the Lamanites, and also all that had become Lamanites because of their dissensions.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:49     Now, this is not all--their faith in their prayers was that this gospel should be made known also, if it were possible that other nations should possess this land;
Doctrine and Covenants 10:50     And thus they did leave a blessing upon this land in their prayers, that whosoever should believe in this gospel in this land might have eternal life;
Doctrine and Covenants 10:51     Yea, that it might be free unto all of whatsoever nation, kindred, tongue, or people they may be.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:52     And now, behold, according to their faith in their prayers will I bring this part of my gospel to the knowledge of my people. Behold, I do not bring it to destroy that which they have received, but to build it up.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:53     And for this cause have I said: If this generation harden not their hearts, I will establish my church among them.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:54     Now I do not say this to destroy my church, but I say this to build up my church;
Doctrine and Covenants 10:55     Therefore, whosoever belongeth to my church need not fear, for such shall inherit the kingdom of heaven.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:56     But it is they who do not fear me, neither keep my commandments but build up churches unto themselves to get gain, yea, and all those that do wickedly and build up the kingdom of the devil--yea, verily, verily, I say unto you, that it is they that I will disturb, and cause to tremble and shake to the center.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:57     Behold, I am Jesus Christ, the Son of God. I came unto mine own, and mine own received me not.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:58     I am the light which shineth in darkness, and the darkness comprehendeth it not.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:59     I am he who said--Other sheep have I which are not of this fold--unto my disciples, and many there were that understood me not.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:60     And I will show unto this people that I had other sheep, and that they were a branch of the house of Jacob;
Doctrine and Covenants 10:61     And I will bring to light their marvelous works, which they did in my name;
Doctrine and Covenants 10:62     Yea, and I will also bring to light my gospel which was ministered unto them, and, behold, they shall not deny that which you have received, but they shall build it up, and shall bring to light the true points of my doctrine, yea, and the only doctrine which is in me.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:63     And this I do that I may establish my gospel, that there may not be so much contention; yea, Satan doth stir up the hearts of the people to contention concerning the points of my doctrine; and in these things they do err, for they do wrest the scriptures and do not understand them.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:64     Therefore, I will unfold unto them this great mystery;
Doctrine and Covenants 10:65     For, behold, I will gather them as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, if they will not harden their hearts;
Doctrine and Covenants 10:66     Yea, if they will come, they may, and partake of the waters of life freely.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:67     Behold, this is my doctrine--whosoever repenteth and cometh unto me, the same is my church.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:68     Whosoever declareth more or less than this, the same is not of me, but is against me; therefore he is not of my church.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:69     And now, behold, whosoever is of my church, and endureth of my church to the end, him will I establish upon my rock, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against them.
Doctrine and Covenants 10:70     And now, remember the words of him who is the life and light of the world, your Redeemer, your Lord and your God. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 11:1     A great and marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men.
Doctrine and Covenants 11:2     Behold, I am God; give heed to my word, which is quick and powerful, sharper than a two-edged sword, to the dividing asunder of both joints and marrow; therefore give heed unto my word.
Doctrine and Covenants 11:3     Behold, the field is white already to harvest; therefore, whoso desireth to reap let him thrust in his sickle with his might, and reap while the day lasts, that he may treasure up for his soul everlasting salvation in the kingdom of God.
Doctrine and Covenants 11:4     Yea, whosoever will thrust in his sickle and reap, the same is called of God.
Doctrine and Covenants 11:5     Therefore, if you will ask of me you shall receive; if you will knock it shall be opened unto you.
Doctrine and Covenants 11:6     Now, as you have asked, behold, I say unto you, keep my commandments, and seek to bring forth and establish the cause of Zion.
Doctrine and Covenants 11:7     Seek not for riches but for wisdom; and, behold, the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto you, and then shall you be made rich. Behold, he that hath eternal life is rich.
Doctrine and Covenants 11:8     Verily, verily, I say unto you, even as you desire of me so it shall be done unto you; and, if you desire, you shall be the means of doing much good in this generation.
Doctrine and Covenants 11:9     Say nothing but repentance unto this generation. Keep my commandments, and assist to bring forth my work, according to my commandments, and you shall be blessed.
Doctrine and Covenants 11:10     Behold, thou hast a gift, or thou shalt have a gift if thou wilt desire of me in faith, with an honest heart, believing in the power of Jesus Christ, or in my power which speaketh unto thee;
Doctrine and Covenants 11:11     For, behold, it is I that speak; behold, I am the light which shineth in darkness, and by my power I give these words unto thee.
Doctrine and Covenants 11:12     And now, verily, verily, I say unto thee, put your trust in that Spirit which leadeth to do good--yea, to do justly, to walk humbly, to judge righteously; and this is my Spirit.
Doctrine and Covenants 11:13     Verily, verily, I say unto you, I will impart unto you of my Spirit, which shall enlighten your mind, which shall fill your soul with joy;
Doctrine and Covenants 11:14     And then shall ye know, or by this shall you know, all things whatsoever you desire of me, which are pertaining unto things of righteousness, in faith believing in me that you shall receive.
Doctrine and Covenants 11:15     Behold, I command you that you need not suppose that you are called to preach until you are called.
Doctrine and Covenants 11:16     Wait a little longer, until you shall have my word, my rock, my church, and my gospel, that you may know of a surety my doctrine.
Doctrine and Covenants 11:17     And then, behold, according to your desires, yea, even according to your faith shall it be done unto you.
Doctrine and Covenants 11:18     Keep my commandments; hold your peace; appeal unto my Spirit;
Doctrine and Covenants 11:19     Yea, cleave unto me with all your heart, that you may assist in bringing to light those things of which has been spoken--yea, the translation of my work; be patient until you shall accomplish it.
Doctrine and Covenants 11:20     Behold, this is your work, to keep my commandments, yea, with all your might, mind and strength.
Doctrine and Covenants 11:21     Seek not to declare my word, but first seek to obtain my word, and then shall your tongue be loosed; then, if you desire, you shall have my Spirit and my word, yea, the power of God unto the convincing of men.
Doctrine and Covenants 11:22     But now hold your peace; study my word which hath gone forth among the children of men, and also study my word which shall come forth among the children of men, or that which is now translating, yea, until you have obtained all which I shall grant unto the children of men in this generation, and then shall all things be added thereto.
Doctrine and Covenants 11:23     Behold thou art Hyrum, my son; seek the kingdom of God, and all things shall be added according to that which is just.
Doctrine and Covenants 11:24     Build upon my rock, which is my gospel;
Doctrine and Covenants 11:25     Deny not the spirit of revelation, nor the spirit of prophecy, for wo unto him that denieth these things;
Doctrine and Covenants 11:26     Therefore, treasure up in your heart until the time which is in my wisdom that you shall go forth.
Doctrine and Covenants 11:27     Behold, I speak unto all who have good desires, and have thrust in their sickle to reap.
Doctrine and Covenants 11:28     Behold, I am Jesus Christ, the Son of God. I am the life and the light of the world.
Doctrine and Covenants 11:29     I am the same who came unto mine own and mine own received me not;
Doctrine and Covenants 11:30     But verily, verily, I say unto you, that as many as receive me, to them will I give power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on my name. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 12:1     A great and marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men.
Doctrine and Covenants 12:2     Behold, I am God; give heed to my word, which is quick and powerful, sharper than a two-edged sword, to the dividing asunder of both joints and marrow; therefore, give heed unto my word.
Doctrine and Covenants 12:3     Behold, the field is white already to harvest; therefore, whoso desireth to reap let him thrust in his sickle with his might, and reap while the day lasts, that he may treasure up for his soul everlasting salvation in the kingdom of God.
Doctrine and Covenants 12:4     Yea, whosoever will thrust in his sickle and reap, the same is called of God.
Doctrine and Covenants 12:5     Therefore, if you will ask of me you shall receive; if you will knock it shall be opened unto you.
Doctrine and Covenants 12:6     Now, as you have asked, behold, I say unto you, keep my commandments, and seek to bring forth and establish the cause of Zion.
Doctrine and Covenants 12:7     Behold, I speak unto you, and also to all those who have desires to bring forth and establish this work;
Doctrine and Covenants 12:8     And no one can assist in this work except he shall be humble and full of love, having faith, hope, and charity, being temperate in all things, whatsoever shall be entrusted to his care.
Doctrine and Covenants 12:9     Behold, I am the light and the life of the world, that speak these words, therefore give heed with your might, and then you are called. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 13:1     Upon you my fellow servants, in the name of Messiah I confer the Priesthood of Aaron, which holds the keys of the ministering of angels, and of the gospel of repentance, and of baptism by immersion for the remission of sins; and this shall never be taken again from the earth, until the sons of Levi do offer again an offering unto the Lord in righteousness.
Doctrine and Covenants 14:1     A great and marvelous work is about to come forth unto the children of men.
Doctrine and Covenants 14:2     Behold, I am God; give heed to my word, which is quick and powerful, sharper than a two-edged sword, to the dividing asunder of both joints and marrow; therefore give heed unto my word.
Doctrine and Covenants 14:3     Behold, the field is white already to harvest; therefore, whoso desireth to reap let him thrust in his sickle with his might, and reap while the day lasts, that he may treasure up for his soul everlasting salvation in the kingdom of God.
Doctrine and Covenants 14:4     Yea, whosoever will thrust in his sickle and reap, the same is called of God.
Doctrine and Covenants 14:5     Therefore, if you will ask of me you shall receive; if you will knock it shall be opened unto you.
Doctrine and Covenants 14:6     Seek to bring forth and establish my Zion. Keep my commandments in all things.
Doctrine and Covenants 14:7     And, if you keep my commandments and endure to the end you shall have eternal life, which gift is the greatest of all the gifts of God.
Doctrine and Covenants 14:8     And it shall come to pass, that if you shall ask the Father in my name, in faith believing, you shall receive the Holy Ghost, which giveth utterance, that you may stand as a witness of the things of which you shall both hear and see, and also that you may declare repentance unto this generation.
Doctrine and Covenants 14:9     Behold, I am Jesus Christ, the Son of the living God, who created the heavens and the earth, a light which cannot be hid in darkness;
Doctrine and Covenants 14:10     Wherefore, I must bring forth the fulness of my gospel from the Gentiles unto the house of Israel.
Doctrine and Covenants 14:11     And behold, thou art David, and thou art called to assist; which thing if ye do, and are faithful, ye shall be blessed both spiritually and temporally, and great shall be your reward. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 15:1     Hearken, my servant John, and listen to the words of Jesus Christ, your Lord and your Redeemer.
Doctrine and Covenants 15:2     For behold, I speak unto you with sharpness and with power, for mine arm is over all the earth.
Doctrine and Covenants 15:3     And I will tell you that which no man knoweth save me and thee alone--
Doctrine and Covenants 15:4     For many times you have desired of me to know that which would be of the most worth unto you.
Doctrine and Covenants 15:5     Behold, blessed are you for this thing, and for speaking my words which I have given you according to my commandments.
Doctrine and Covenants 15:6     And now, behold, I say unto you, that the thing which will be of the most worth unto you will be to declare repentance unto this people, that you may bring souls unto me, that you may rest with them in the kingdom of my Father. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 16:1     Hearken, my servant Peter, and listen to the words of Jesus Christ, your Lord and your Redeemer.
Doctrine and Covenants 16:2     For behold, I speak unto you with sharpness and with power, for mine arm is over all the earth.
Doctrine and Covenants 16:3     And I will tell you that which no man knoweth save me and thee alone--
Doctrine and Covenants 16:4     For many times you have desired of me to know that which would be of the most worth unto you.
Doctrine and Covenants 16:5     Behold, blessed are you for this thing, and for speaking my words which I have given unto you according to my commandments.
Doctrine and Covenants 16:6     And now, behold, I say unto you, that the thing which will be of the most worth unto you will be to declare repentance unto this people, that you may bring souls unto me, that you may rest with them in the kingdom of my Father. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 17:1     Behold, I say unto you, that you must rely upon my word, which if you do with full purpose of heart, you shall have a view of the plates, and also of the breastplate, the sword of Laban, the Urim and Thummim, which were given to the brother of Jared upon the mount, when he talked with the Lord face to face, and the miraculous directors which were given to Lehi while in the wilderness, on the borders of the Red Sea.
Doctrine and Covenants 17:2     And it is by your faith that you shall obtain a view of them, even by that faith which was had by the prophets of old.
Doctrine and Covenants 17:3     And after that you have obtained faith, and have seen them with your eyes, you shall testify of them, by the power of God;
Doctrine and Covenants 17:4     And this you shall do that my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., may not be destroyed, that I may bring about my righteous purposes unto the children of men in this work.
Doctrine and Covenants 17:5     And ye shall testify that you have seen them, even as my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., has seen them; for it is by my power that he has seen them, and it is because he had faith.
Doctrine and Covenants 17:6     And he has translated the book, even that part which I have commanded him, and as your Lord and your God liveth it is true.
Doctrine and Covenants 17:7     Wherefore, you have received the same power, and the same faith, and the same gift like unto him;
Doctrine and Covenants 17:8     And if you do these last commandments of mine, which I have given you, the gates of hell shall not prevail against you; for my grace is sufficient for you, and you shall be lifted up at the last day.
Doctrine and Covenants 17:9     And I, Jesus Christ, your Lord and your God, have spoken it unto you, that I might bring about my righteous purposes unto the children of men. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 18:1     Now, behold, because of the thing which you, my servant Oliver Cowdery, have desired to know of me, I give unto you these words:
Doctrine and Covenants 18:2     Behold, I have manifested unto you, by my Spirit in many instances, that the things which you have written are true; wherefore you know that they are true.
Doctrine and Covenants 18:3     And if you know that they are true, behold, I give unto you a commandment, that you rely upon the things which are written;
Doctrine and Covenants 18:4     For in them are all things written concerning the foundation of my church, my gospel, and my rock.
Doctrine and Covenants 18:5     Wherefore, if you shall build up my church, upon the foundation of my gospel and my rock, the gates of hell shall not prevail against you.
Doctrine and Covenants 18:6     Behold, the world is ripening in iniquity; and it must needs be that the children of men are stirred up unto repentance, both the Gentiles and also the house of Israel.
Doctrine and Covenants 18:7     Wherefore, as thou hast been baptized by the hands of my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., according to that which I have commanded him, he hath fulfilled the thing which I commanded him.
Doctrine and Covenants 18:8     And now, marvel not that I have called him unto mine own purpose, which purpose is known in me; wherefore, if he shall be diligent in keeping my commandments he shall be blessed unto eternal life; and his name is Joseph.
Doctrine and Covenants 18:9     And now, Oliver Cowdery, I speak unto you, and also unto David Whitmer, by the way of commandment; for, behold, I command all men everywhere to repent, and I speak unto you, even as unto Paul mine apostle, for you are called even with that same calling with which he was called.
Doctrine and Covenants 18:10     Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God;
Doctrine and Covenants 18:11     For, behold, the Lord your Redeemer suffered death in the flesh; wherefore he suffered the pain of all men, that all men might repent and come unto him.
Doctrine and Covenants 18:12     And he hath risen again from the dead, that he might bring all men unto him, on conditions of repentance.
Doctrine and Covenants 18:13     And how great is his joy in the soul that repenteth!
Doctrine and Covenants 18:14     Wherefore, you are called to cry repentance unto this people.
Doctrine and Covenants 18:15     And if it so be that you should labor all your days in crying repentance unto this people, and bring, save it be one soul unto me, how great shall be your joy with him in the kingdom of my Father!
Doctrine and Covenants 18:16     And now, if your joy will be great with one soul that you have brought unto me into the kingdom of my Father, how great will be your joy if you should bring many souls unto me!
Doctrine and Covenants 18:17     Behold, you have my gospel before you, and my rock, and my salvation.
Doctrine and Covenants 18:18     Ask the Father in my name in faith, believing that you shall receive, and you shall have the Holy Ghost, which manifesteth all things which are expedient unto the children of men.
Doctrine and Covenants 18:19     And if you have not faith, hope, and charity, you can do nothing.
Doctrine and Covenants 18:20     Contend against no church, save it be the church of the devil.
Doctrine and Covenants 18:21     Take upon you the name of Christ, and speak the truth in soberness.
Doctrine and Covenants 18:22     And as many as repent and are baptized in my name, which is Jesus Christ, and endure to the end, the same shall be saved.
Doctrine and Covenants 18:23     Behold, Jesus Christ is the name which is given of the Father, and there is none other name given whereby man can be saved;
Doctrine and Covenants 18:24     Wherefore, all men must take upon them the name which is given of the Father, for in that name shall they be called at the last day;
Doctrine and Covenants 18:25     Wherefore, if they know not the name by which they are called, they cannot have place in the kingdom of my Father.
Doctrine and Covenants 18:26     And now, behold, there are others who are called to declare my gospel, both unto Gentile and unto Jew;
Doctrine and Covenants 18:27     Yea, even twelve; and the Twelve shall be my disciples, and they shall take upon them my name; and the Twelve are they who shall desire to take upon them my name with full purpose of heart.
Doctrine and Covenants 18:28     And if they desire to take upon them my name with full purpose of heart, they are called to go into all the world to preach my gospel unto every creature.
Doctrine and Covenants 18:29     And they are they who are ordained of me to baptize in my name, according to that which is written;
Doctrine and Covenants 18:30     And you have that which is written before you; wherefore, you must perform it according to the words which are written.
Doctrine and Covenants 18:31     And now I speak unto you, the Twelve--Behold, my grace is sufficient for you; you must walk uprightly before me and sin not.
Doctrine and Covenants 18:32     And, behold, you are they who are ordained of me to ordain priests and teachers; to declare my gospel, according to the power of the Holy Ghost which is in you, and according to the callings and gifts of God unto men;
Doctrine and Covenants 18:33     And I, Jesus Christ, your Lord and your God, have spoken it.
Doctrine and Covenants 18:34     These words are not of men nor of man, but of me; wherefore, you shall testify they are of me and not of man;
Doctrine and Covenants 18:35     For it is my voice which speaketh them unto you; for they are given by my Spirit unto you, and by my power you can read them one to another; and save it were by my power you could not have them;
Doctrine and Covenants 18:36     Wherefore, you can testify that you have heard my voice, and know my words.
Doctrine and Covenants 18:37     And now, behold, I give unto you, Oliver Cowdery, and also unto David Whitmer, that you shall search out the Twelve, who shall have the desires of which I have spoken;
Doctrine and Covenants 18:38     And by their desires and their works you shall know them.
Doctrine and Covenants 18:39     And when you have found them you shall show these things unto them.
Doctrine and Covenants 18:40     And you shall fall down and worship the Father in my name.
Doctrine and Covenants 18:41     And you must preach unto the world, saying: You must repent and be baptized, in the name of Jesus Christ;
Doctrine and Covenants 18:42     For all men must repent and be baptized, and not only men, but women, and children who have arrived at the years of accountability.
Doctrine and Covenants 18:43     And now, after that you have received this, you must keep my commandments in all things;
Doctrine and Covenants 18:44     And by your hands I will work a marvelous work among the children of men, unto the convincing of many of their sins, that they may come unto repentance, and that they may come unto the kingdom of my Father.
Doctrine and Covenants 18:45     Wherefore, the blessings which I give unto you are above all things.
Doctrine and Covenants 18:46     And after that you have received this, if you keep not my commandments you cannot be saved in the kingdom of my Father.
Doctrine and Covenants 18:47     Behold, I, Jesus Christ, your Lord and your God, and your Redeemer, by the power of my Spirit have spoken it. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 19:1     I am Alpha and Omega, Christ the Lord; yea, even I am he, the beginning and the end, the Redeemer of the world.
Doctrine and Covenants 19:2     I, having accomplished and finished the will of him whose I am, even the Father, concerning me--having done this that I might subdue all things unto myself--
Doctrine and Covenants 19:3     Retaining all power, even to the destroying of Satan and his works at the end of the world, and the last great day of judgment, which I shall pass upon the inhabitants thereof, judging every man according to his works and the deeds which he hath done.
Doctrine and Covenants 19:4     And surely every man must repent or suffer, for I, God, am endless.
Doctrine and Covenants 19:5     Wherefore, I revoke not the judgments which I shall pass, but woes shall go forth, weeping, wailing and gnashing of teeth, yea, to those who are found on my left hand.
Doctrine and Covenants 19:6     Nevertheless, it is not written that there shall be no end to this torment, but it is written endless torment.
Doctrine and Covenants 19:7     Again, it is written eternal damnation; wherefore it is more express than other scriptures, that it might work upon the hearts of the children of men, altogether for my name's glory.
Doctrine and Covenants 19:8     Wherefore, I will explain unto you this mystery, for it is meet unto you to know even as mine apostles.
Doctrine and Covenants 19:9     I speak unto you that are chosen in this thing, even as one, that you may enter into my rest.
Doctrine and Covenants 19:10     For, behold, the mystery of godliness, how great is it! For, behold, I am endless, and the punishment which is given from my hand is endless punishment, for Endless is my name. Wherefore--
Doctrine and Covenants 19:11     Eternal punishment is God's punishment.
Doctrine and Covenants 19:12     Endless punishment is God's punishment.
Doctrine and Covenants 19:13     Wherefore, I command you to repent, and keep the commandments which you have received by the hand of my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., in my name;
Doctrine and Covenants 19:14     And it is by my almighty power that you have received them;
Doctrine and Covenants 19:15     Therefore I command you to repent--repent, lest I smite you by the rod of my mouth, and by my wrath, and by my anger, and your sufferings be sore--how sore you know not, how exquisite you know not, yea, how hard to bear you know not.
Doctrine and Covenants 19:16     For behold, I, God, have suffered these things for all, that they might not suffer if they would repent;
Doctrine and Covenants 19:17     But if they would not repent they must suffer even as I;
Doctrine and Covenants 19:18     Which suffering caused myself, even God, the greatest of all, to tremble because of pain, and to bleed at every pore, and to suffer both body and spirit--and would that I might not drink the bitter cup, and shrink--
Doctrine and Covenants 19:19     Nevertheless, glory be to the Father, and I partook and finished my preparations unto the children of men.
Doctrine and Covenants 19:20     Wherefore, I command you again to repent, lest I humble you with my almighty power; and that you confess your sins, lest you suffer these punishments of which I have spoken, of which in the smallest, yea, even in the least degree you have tasted at the time I withdrew my Spirit.
Doctrine and Covenants 19:21     And I command you that you preach naught but repentance, and show not these things unto the world until it is wisdom in me.
Doctrine and Covenants 19:22     For they cannot bear meat now, but milk they must receive; wherefore, they must not know these things, lest they perish.
Doctrine and Covenants 19:23     Learn of me, and listen to my words; walk in the meekness of my Spirit, and you shall have peace in me.
Doctrine and Covenants 19:24     I am Jesus Christ; I came by the will of the Father, and I do his will.
Doctrine and Covenants 19:25     And again, I command thee that thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's wife; nor seek thy neighbor's life.
Doctrine and Covenants 19:26     And again, I command thee that thou shalt not covet thine own property, but impart it freely to the printing of the Book of Mormon, which contains the truth and the word of God--
Doctrine and Covenants 19:27     Which is my word to the Gentile, that soon it may go to the Jew, of whom the Lamanites are a remnant, that they may believe the gospel, and look not for a Messiah to come who has already come.
Doctrine and Covenants 19:28     And again, I command thee that thou shalt pray vocally as well as in thy heart; yea, before the world as well as in secret, in public as well as in private.
Doctrine and Covenants 19:29     And thou shalt declare glad tidings, yea, publish it upon the mountains, and upon every high place, and among every people that thou shalt be permitted to see.
Doctrine and Covenants 19:30     And thou shalt do it with all humility, trusting in me, reviling not against revilers.
Doctrine and Covenants 19:31     And of tenets thou shalt not talk, but thou shalt declare repentance and faith on the Savior, and remission of sins by baptism, and by fire, yea, even the Holy Ghost.
Doctrine and Covenants 19:32     Behold, this is a great and the last commandment which I shall give unto you concerning this matter; for this shall suffice for thy daily walk, even unto the end of thy life.
Doctrine and Covenants 19:33     And misery thou shalt receive if thou wilt slight these counsels, yea, even the destruction of thyself and property.
Doctrine and Covenants 19:34     Impart a portion of thy property, yea, even part of thy lands, and all save the support of thy family.
Doctrine and Covenants 19:35     Pay the debt thou hast contracted with the printer. Release thyself from bondage.
Doctrine and Covenants 19:36     Leave thy house and home, except when thou shalt desire to see thy family;
Doctrine and Covenants 19:37     And speak freely to all; yea, preach, exhort, declare the truth, even with a loud voice, with a sound of rejoicing, crying--Hosanna, hosanna, blessed be the name of the Lord God!
Doctrine and Covenants 19:38     Pray always, and I will pour out my Spirit upon you, and great shall be your blessing--yea, even more than if you should obtain treasures of earth and corruptibleness to the extent thereof.
Doctrine and Covenants 19:39     Behold, canst thou read this without rejoicing and lifting up thy heart for gladness?
Doctrine and Covenants 19:40     Or canst thou run about longer as a blind guide?
Doctrine and Covenants 19:41     Or canst thou be humble and meek, and conduct thyself wisely before me? Yea, come unto me thy Savior. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 20:1     The rise of the Church of Christ in these last days, being one thousand eight hundred and thirty years since the coming of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ in the flesh, it being regularly organized and established agreeable to the laws of our country, by the will and commandments of God, in the fourth month, and on the sixth day of the month which is called April--
Doctrine and Covenants 20:2     Which commandments were given to Joseph Smith, Jun., who was called of God, and ordained an apostle of Jesus Christ, to be the first elder of this church;
Doctrine and Covenants 20:3     And to Oliver Cowdery, who was also called of God, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to be the second elder of this church, and ordained under his hand;
Doctrine and Covenants 20:4     And this according to the grace of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, to whom be all glory, both now and forever. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 20:5     After it was truly manifested unto this first elder that he had received a remission of his sins, he was entangled again in the vanities of the world;
Doctrine and Covenants 20:6     But after repenting, and humbling himself sincerely, through faith, God ministered unto him by an holy angel, whose countenance was as lightning, and whose garments were pure and white above all other whiteness;
Doctrine and Covenants 20:7     And gave unto him commandments which inspired him;
Doctrine and Covenants 20:8     And gave him power from on high, by the means which were before prepared, to translate the Book of Mormon;
Doctrine and Covenants 20:9     Which contains a record of a fallen people, and the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ to the Gentiles and to the Jews also;
Doctrine and Covenants 20:10     Which was given by inspiration, and is confirmed to others by the ministering of angels, and is declared unto the world by them--
Doctrine and Covenants 20:11     Proving to the world that the holy scriptures are true, and that God does inspire men and call them to his holy work in this age and generation, as well as in generations of old;
Doctrine and Covenants 20:12     Thereby showing that he is the same God yesterday, today, and forever. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 20:13     Therefore, having so great witnesses, by them shall the world be judged, even as many as shall hereafter come to a knowledge of this work.
Doctrine and Covenants 20:14     And those who receive it in faith, and work righteousness, shall receive a crown of eternal life;
Doctrine and Covenants 20:15     But those who harden their hearts in unbelief, and reject it, it shall turn to their own condemnation--
Doctrine and Covenants 20:16     For the Lord God has spoken it; and we, the elders of the church, have heard and bear witness to the words of the glorious Majesty on high, to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 20:17     By these things we know that there is a God in heaven, who is infinite and eternal, from everlasting to everlasting the same unchangeable God, the framer of heaven and earth, and all things which are in them;
Doctrine and Covenants 20:18     And that he created man, male and female, after his own image and in his own likeness, created he them;
Doctrine and Covenants 20:19     And gave unto them commandments that they should love and serve him, the only living and true God, and that he should be the only being whom they should worship.
Doctrine and Covenants 20:20     But by the transgression of these holy laws man became sensual and devilish, and became fallen man.
Doctrine and Covenants 20:21     Wherefore, the Almighty God gave his Only Begotten Son, as it is written in those scriptures which have been given of him.
Doctrine and Covenants 20:22     He suffered temptations but gave no heed unto them.
Doctrine and Covenants 20:23     He was crucified, died, and rose again the third day;
Doctrine and Covenants 20:24     And ascended into heaven, to sit down on the right hand of the Father, to reign with almighty power according to the will of the Father;
Doctrine and Covenants 20:25     That as many as would believe and be baptized in his holy name, and endure in faith to the end, should be saved--
Doctrine and Covenants 20:26     Not only those who believed after he came in the meridian of time, in the flesh, but all those from the beginning, even as many as were before he came, who believed in the words of the holy prophets, who spake as they were inspired by the gift of the Holy Ghost, who truly testified of him in all things, should have eternal life,
Doctrine and Covenants 20:27     As well as those who should come after, who should believe in the gifts and callings of God by the Holy Ghost, which beareth record of the Father and of the Son;
Doctrine and Covenants 20:28     Which Father, Son, and Holy Ghost are one God, infinite and eternal, without end. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 20:29     And we know that all men must repent and believe on the name of Jesus Christ, and worship the Father in his name, and endure in faith on his name to the end, or they cannot be saved in the kingdom of God.
Doctrine and Covenants 20:30     And we know that justification through the grace of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ is just and true;
Doctrine and Covenants 20:31     And we know also, that sanctification through the grace of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ is just and true, to all those who love and serve God with all their mights, minds, and strength.
Doctrine and Covenants 20:32     But there is a possibility that man may fall from grace and depart from the living God;
Doctrine and Covenants 20:33     Therefore let the church take heed and pray always, lest they fall into temptation;
Doctrine and Covenants 20:34     Yea, and even let those who are sanctified take heed also.
Doctrine and Covenants 20:35     And we know that these things are true and according to the revelations of John, neither adding to, nor diminishing from the prophecy of his book, the holy scriptures, or the revelations of God which shall come hereafter by the gift and power of the Holy Ghost, the voice of God, or the ministering of angels.
Doctrine and Covenants 20:36     And the Lord God has spoken it; and honor, power and glory be rendered to his holy name, both now and ever. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 20:37     And again, by way of commandment to the church concerning the manner of baptism--All those who humble themselves before God, and desire to be baptized, and come forth with broken hearts and contrite spirits, and witness before the church that they have truly repented of all their sins, and are willing to take upon them the name of Jesus Christ, having a determination to serve him to the end, and truly manifest by their works that they have received of the Spirit of Christ unto the remission of their sins, shall be received by baptism into his church.
Doctrine and Covenants 20:38     The duty of the elders, priests, teachers, deacons, and members of the church of Christ--An apostle is an elder, and it is his calling to baptize;
Doctrine and Covenants 20:39     And to ordain other elders, priests, teachers, and deacons;
Doctrine and Covenants 20:40     And to administer bread and wine--the emblems of the flesh and blood of Christ--
Doctrine and Covenants 20:41     And to confirm those who are baptized into the church, by the laying on of hands for the baptism of fire and the Holy Ghost, according to the scriptures;
Doctrine and Covenants 20:42     And to teach, expound, exhort, baptize, and watch over the church;
Doctrine and Covenants 20:43     And to confirm the church by the laying on of the hands, and the giving of the Holy Ghost;
Doctrine and Covenants 20:44     And to take the lead of all meetings.
Doctrine and Covenants 20:45     The elders are to conduct the meetings as they are led by the Holy Ghost, according to the commandments and revelations of God.
Doctrine and Covenants 20:46     The priest's duty is to preach, teach, expound, exhort, and baptize, and administer the sacrament,
Doctrine and Covenants 20:47     And visit the house of each member, and exhort them to pray vocally and in secret and attend to all family duties.
Doctrine and Covenants 20:48     And he may also ordain other priests, teachers, and deacons.
Doctrine and Covenants 20:49     And he is to take the lead of meetings when there is no elder present;
Doctrine and Covenants 20:50     But when there is an elder present, he is only to preach, teach, expound, exhort, and baptize,
Doctrine and Covenants 20:51     And visit the house of each member, exhorting them to pray vocally and in secret and attend to all family duties.
Doctrine and Covenants 20:52     In all these duties the priest is to assist the elder if occasion requires.
Doctrine and Covenants 20:53     The teacher's duty is to watch over the church always, and be with and strengthen them;
Doctrine and Covenants 20:54     And see that there is no iniquity in the church, neither hardness with each other, neither lying, backbiting, nor evil speaking;
Doctrine and Covenants 20:55     And see that the church meet together often, and also see that all the members do their duty.
Doctrine and Covenants 20:56     And he is to take the lead of meetings in the absence of the elder or priest--
Doctrine and Covenants 20:57     And is to be assisted always, in all his duties in the church, by the deacons, if occasion requires.
Doctrine and Covenants 20:58     But neither teachers nor deacons have authority to baptize, administer the sacrament, or lay on hands;
Doctrine and Covenants 20:59     They are, however, to warn, expound, exhort, and teach, and invite all to come unto Christ.
Doctrine and Covenants 20:60     Every elder, priest, teacher, or deacon is to be ordained according to the gifts and callings of God unto him; and he is to be ordained by the power of the Holy Ghost, which is in the one who ordains him.
Doctrine and Covenants 20:61     The several elders composing this church of Christ are to meet in conference once in three months, or from time to time as said conferences shall direct or appoint;
Doctrine and Covenants 20:62     And said conferences are to do whatever church business is necessary to be done at the time.
Doctrine and Covenants 20:63     The elders are to receive their licenses from other elders, by vote of the church to which they belong, or from the conferences.
Doctrine and Covenants 20:64     Each priest, teacher, or deacon, who is ordained by a priest, may take a certificate from him at the time, which certificate, when presented to an elder, shall entitle him to a license, which shall authorize him to perform the duties of his calling, or he may receive it from a conference.
Doctrine and Covenants 20:65     No person is to be ordained to any office in this church, where there is a regularly organized branch of the same, without the vote of that church;
Doctrine and Covenants 20:66     But the presiding elders, traveling bishops, high councilors, high priests, and elders, may have the privilege of ordaining, where there is no branch of the church that a vote may be called.
Doctrine and Covenants 20:67     Every president of the high priesthood (or presiding elder), bishop, high councilor, and high priest, is to be ordained by the direction of a high council or general conference.
Doctrine and Covenants 20:68     The duty of the members after they are received by baptism--The elders or priests are to have a sufficient time to expound all things concerning the church of Christ to their understanding, previous to their partaking of the sacrament and being confirmed by the laying on of the hands of the elders, so that all things may be done in order.
Doctrine and Covenants 20:69     And the members shall manifest before the church, and also before the elders, by a godly walk and conversation, that they are worthy of it, that there may be works and faith agreeable to the holy scriptures--walking in holiness before the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 20:70     Every member of the church of Christ having children is to bring them unto the elders before the church, who are to lay their hands upon them in the name of Jesus Christ, and bless them in his name.
Doctrine and Covenants 20:71     No one can be received into the church of Christ unless he has arrived unto the years of accountability before God, and is capable of repentance.
Doctrine and Covenants 20:72     Baptism is to be administered in the following manner unto all those who repent--
Doctrine and Covenants 20:73     The person who is called of God and has authority from Jesus Christ to baptize, shall go down into the water with the person who has presented himself or herself for baptism, and shall say, calling him or her by name: Having been commissioned of Jesus Christ, I baptize you in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 20:74     Then shall he immerse him or her in the water, and come forth again out of the water.
Doctrine and Covenants 20:75     It is expedient that the church meet together often to partake of bread and wine in the remembrance of the Lord Jesus;
Doctrine and Covenants 20:76     And the elder or priest shall administer it; and after this manner shall he administer it--he shall kneel with the church and call upon the Father in solemn prayer, saying:
Doctrine and Covenants 20:77     O God, the Eternal Father, we ask thee in the name of thy Son, Jesus Christ, to bless and sanctify this bread to the souls of all those who partake of it, that they may eat in remembrance of the body of thy Son, and witness unto thee, O God, the Eternal Father, that they are willing to take upon them the name of thy Son, and always remember him and keep his commandments which he has given them; that they may always have his Spirit to be with them. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 20:78     The manner of administering the wine--he shall take the cup also, and say:
Doctrine and Covenants 20:79     O God, the Eternal Father, we ask thee in the name of thy Son, Jesus Christ, to bless and sanctify this wine to the souls of all those who drink of it, that they may do it in remembrance of the blood of thy Son, which was shed for them; that they may witness unto thee, O God, the Eternal Father, that they do always remember him, that they may have his Spirit to be with them. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 20:80     Any member of the church of Christ transgressing, or being overtaken in a fault, shall be dealt with as the scriptures direct.
Doctrine and Covenants 20:81     It shall be the duty of the several churches, composing the church of Christ, to send one or more of their teachers to attend the several conferences held by the elders of the church,
Doctrine and Covenants 20:82     With a list of the names of the several members uniting themselves with the church since the last conference; or send by the hand of some priest; so that a regular list of all the names of the whole church may be kept in a book by one of the elders, whomsoever the other elders shall appoint from time to time;
Doctrine and Covenants 20:83     And also, if any have been expelled from the church, so that their names may be blotted out of the general church record of names.
Doctrine and Covenants 20:84     All members removing from the church where they reside, if going to a church where they are not known, may take a letter certifying that they are regular members and in good standing, which certificate may be signed by any elder or priest if the member receiving the letter is personally acquainted with the elder or priest, or it may be signed by the teachers or deacons of the church.
Doctrine and Covenants 21:1     Behold, there shall be a record kept among you; and in it thou shalt be called a seer, a translator, a prophet, an apostle of Jesus Christ, an elder of the church through the will of God the Father, and the grace of your Lord Jesus Christ,
Doctrine and Covenants 21:2     Being inspired of the Holy Ghost to lay the foundation thereof, and to build it up unto the most holy faith.
Doctrine and Covenants 21:3     Which church was organized and established in the year of your Lord eighteen hundred and thirty, in the fourth month, and on the sixth day of the month which is called April.
Doctrine and Covenants 21:4     Wherefore, meaning the church, thou shalt give heed unto all his words and commandments which he shall give unto you as he receiveth them, walking in all holiness before me;
Doctrine and Covenants 21:5     For his word ye shall receive, as if from mine own mouth, in all patience and faith.
Doctrine and Covenants 21:6     For by doing these things the gates of hell shall not prevail against you; yea, and the Lord God will disperse the powers of darkness from before you, and cause the heavens to shake for your good, and his name's glory.
Doctrine and Covenants 21:7     For thus saith the Lord God: Him have I inspired to move the cause of Zion in mighty power for good, and his diligence I know, and his prayers I have heard.
Doctrine and Covenants 21:8     Yea, his weeping for Zion I have seen, and I will cause that he shall mourn for her no longer; for his days of rejoicing are come unto the remission of his sins, and the manifestations of my blessings upon his works.
Doctrine and Covenants 21:9     For, behold, I will bless all those who labor in my vineyard with a mighty blessing, and they shall believe on his words, which are given him through me by the Comforter, which manifesteth that Jesus was crucified by sinful men for the sins of the world, yea, for the remission of sins unto the contrite heart.
Doctrine and Covenants 21:10     Wherefore it behooveth me that he should be ordained by you, Oliver Cowdery mine apostle;
Doctrine and Covenants 21:11     This being an ordinance unto you, that you are an elder under his hand, he being the first unto you, that you might be an elder unto this church of Christ, bearing my name--
Doctrine and Covenants 21:12     And the first preacher of this church unto the church, and before the world, yea, before the Gentiles; yea, and thus saith the Lord God, lo, lo! to the Jews also. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 22:1     Behold, I say unto you that all old covenants have I caused to be done away in this thing; and this is a new and an everlasting covenant, even that which was from the beginning.
Doctrine and Covenants 22:2     Wherefore, although a man should be baptized an hundred times it availeth him nothing, for you cannot enter in at the strait gate by the law of Moses, neither by your dead works.
Doctrine and Covenants 22:3     For it is because of your dead works that I have caused this last covenant and this church to be built up unto me, even as in days of old.
Doctrine and Covenants 22:4     Wherefore, enter ye in at the gate, as I have commanded, and seek not to counsel your God. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 23:1     Behold, I speak unto you, Oliver, a few words. Behold, thou art blessed, and art under no condemnation. But beware of pride, lest thou shouldst enter into temptation.
Doctrine and Covenants 23:2     Make known thy calling unto the church, and also before the world, and thy heart shall be opened to preach the truth from henceforth and forever. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 23:3     Behold, I speak unto you, Hyrum, a few words; for thou also art under no condemnation, and thy heart is opened, and thy tongue loosed; and thy calling is to exhortation, and to strengthen the church continually. Wherefore thy duty is unto the church forever, and this because of thy family. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 23:4     Behold, I speak a few words unto you, Samuel; for thou also art under no condemnation, and thy calling is to exhortation, and to strengthen the church; and thou art not as yet called to preach before the world. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 23:5     Behold, I speak a few words unto you, Joseph; for thou also art under no condemnation, and thy calling also is to exhortation, and to strengthen the church; and this is thy duty from henceforth and forever. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 23:6     Behold, I manifest unto you, Joseph Knight, by these words, that you must take up your cross, in the which you must pray vocally before the world as well as in secret, and in your family, and among your friends, and in all places.
Doctrine and Covenants 23:7     And, behold, it is your duty to unite with the true church, and give your language to exhortation continually, that you may receive the reward of the laborer. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 24:1     Behold, thou wast called and chosen to write the Book of Mormon, and to my ministry; and I have lifted thee up out of thine afflictions, and have counseled thee, that thou hast been delivered from all thine enemies, and thou hast been delivered from the powers of Satan and from darkness!
Doctrine and Covenants 24:2     Nevertheless, thou art not excusable in thy transgressions; nevertheless, go thy way and sin no more.
Doctrine and Covenants 24:3     Magnify thine office; and after thou hast sowed thy fields and secured them, go speedily unto the church which is in Colesville, Fayette, and Manchester, and they shall support thee; and I will bless them both spiritually and temporally;
Doctrine and Covenants 24:4     But if they receive thee not, I will send upon them a cursing instead of a blessing.
Doctrine and Covenants 24:5     And thou shalt continue in calling upon God in my name, and writing the things which shall be given thee by the Comforter, and expounding all scriptures unto the church.
Doctrine and Covenants 24:6     And it shall be given thee in the very moment what thou shalt speak and write, and they shall hear it, or I will send unto them a cursing instead of a blessing.
Doctrine and Covenants 24:7     For thou shalt devote all thy service in Zion; and in this thou shalt have strength.
Doctrine and Covenants 24:8     Be patient in afflictions, for thou shalt have many; but endure them, for, lo, I am with thee, even unto the end of thy days.
Doctrine and Covenants 24:9     And in temporal labors thou shalt not have strength, for this is not thy calling. Attend to thy calling and thou shalt have wherewith to magnify thine office, and to expound all scriptures, and continue in laying on of the hands and confirming the churches.
Doctrine and Covenants 24:10     And thy brother Oliver shall continue in bearing my name before the world, and also to the church. And he shall not suppose that he can say enough in my cause; and lo, I am with him to the end.
Doctrine and Covenants 24:11     In me he shall have glory, and not of himself, whether in weakness or in strength, whether in bonds or free;
Doctrine and Covenants 24:12     And at all times, and in all places, he shall open his mouth and declare my gospel as with the voice of a trump, both day and night. And I will give unto him strength such as is not known among men.
Doctrine and Covenants 24:13     Require not miracles, except I shall command you, except casting out devils, healing the sick, and against poisonous serpents, and against deadly poisons;
Doctrine and Covenants 24:14     And these things ye shall not do, except it be required of you by them who desire it, that the scriptures might be fulfilled; for ye shall do according to that which is written.
Doctrine and Covenants 24:15     And in whatsoever place ye shall enter, and they receive you not in my name, ye shall leave a cursing instead of a blessing, by casting off the dust of your feet against them as a testimony, and cleansing your feet by the wayside.
Doctrine and Covenants 24:16     And it shall come to pass that whosoever shall lay their hands upon you by violence, ye shall command to be smitten in my name; and, behold, I will smite them according to your words, in mine own due time.
Doctrine and Covenants 24:17     And whosoever shall go to law with thee shall be cursed by the law.
Doctrine and Covenants 24:18     And thou shalt take no purse nor scrip, neither staves, neither two coats, for the church shall give unto thee in the very hour what thou needest for food and for raiment, and for shoes and for money, and for scrip.
Doctrine and Covenants 24:19     For thou art called to prune my vineyard with a mighty pruning, yea, even for the last time; yea, and also all those whom thou hast ordained, and they shall do even according to this pattern. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 25:1     Hearken unto the voice of the Lord your God, while I speak unto you, Emma Smith, my daughter; for verily I say unto you, all those who receive my gospel are sons and daughters in my kingdom.
Doctrine and Covenants 25:2     A revelation I give unto you concerning my will; and if thou art faithful and walk in the paths of virtue before me, I will preserve thy life, and thou shalt receive an inheritance in Zion.
Doctrine and Covenants 25:3     Behold, thy sins are forgiven thee, and thou art an elect lady, whom I have called.
Doctrine and Covenants 25:4     Murmur not because of the things which thou hast not seen, for they are withheld from thee and from the world, which is wisdom in me in a time to come.
Doctrine and Covenants 25:5     And the office of thy calling shall be for a comfort unto my servant, Joseph Smith, Jun., thy husband, in his afflictions, with consoling words, in the spirit of meekness.
Doctrine and Covenants 25:6     And thou shalt go with him at the time of his going, and be unto him for a scribe, while there is no one to be a scribe for him, that I may send my servant, Oliver Cowdery, whithersoever I will.
Doctrine and Covenants 25:7     And thou shalt be ordained under his hand to expound scriptures, and to exhort the church, according as it shall be given thee by my Spirit.
Doctrine and Covenants 25:8     For he shall lay his hands upon thee, and thou shalt receive the Holy Ghost, and thy time shall be given to writing, and to learning much.
Doctrine and Covenants 25:9     And thou needest not fear, for thy husband shall support thee in the church; for unto them is his calling, that all things might be revealed unto them, whatsoever I will, according to their faith.
Doctrine and Covenants 25:10     And verily I say unto thee that thou shalt lay aside the things of this world, and seek for the things of a better.
Doctrine and Covenants 25:11     And it shall be given thee, also, to make a selection of sacred hymns, as it shall be given thee, which is pleasing unto me, to be had in my church.
Doctrine and Covenants 25:12     For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads.
Doctrine and Covenants 25:13     Wherefore, lift up thy heart and rejoice, and cleave unto the covenants which thou hast made.
Doctrine and Covenants 25:14     Continue in the spirit of meekness, and beware of pride. Let thy soul delight in thy husband, and the glory which shall come upon him.
Doctrine and Covenants 25:15     Keep my commandments continually, and a crown of righteousness thou shalt receive. And except thou do this, where I am you cannot come.
Doctrine and Covenants 25:16     And verily, verily, I say unto you, that this is my voice unto all. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 26:1     Behold, I say unto you that you shall let your time be devoted to the studying of the scriptures, and to preaching, and to confirming the church at Colesville, and to performing your labors on the land, such as is required, until after you shall go to the west to hold the next conference; and then it shall be made known what you shall do.
Doctrine and Covenants 26:2     And all things shall be done by common consent in the church, by much prayer and faith, for all things you shall receive by faith. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 27:1     Listen to the voice of Jesus Christ, your Lord, your God, and your Redeemer, whose word is quick and powerful.
Doctrine and Covenants 27:2     For, behold, I say unto you, that it mattereth not what ye shall eat or what ye shall drink when ye partake of the sacrament, if it so be that ye do it with an eye single to my glory--remembering unto the Father my body which was laid down for you, and my blood which was shed for the remission of your sins.
Doctrine and Covenants 27:3     Wherefore, a commandment I give unto you, that you shall not purchase wine neither strong drink of your enemies;
Doctrine and Covenants 27:4     Wherefore, you shall partake of none except it is made new among you; yea, in this my Father's kingdom which shall be built up on the earth.
Doctrine and Covenants 27:5     Behold, this is wisdom in me; wherefore, marvel not, for the hour cometh that I will drink of the fruit of the vine with you on the earth, and with Moroni, whom I have sent unto you to reveal the Book of Mormon, containing the fulness of my everlasting gospel, to whom I have committed the keys of the record of the stick of Ephraim;
Doctrine and Covenants 27:6     And also with Elias, to whom I have committed the keys of bringing to pass the restoration of all things spoken by the mouth of all the holy prophets since the world began, concerning the last days;
Doctrine and Covenants 27:7     And also John the son of Zacharias, which Zacharias he (Elias) visited and gave promise that he should have a son, and his name should be John, and he should be filled with the spirit of Elias;
Doctrine and Covenants 27:8     Which John I have sent unto you, my servants, Joseph Smith, Jun., and Oliver Cowdery, to ordain you unto the first priesthood which you have received, that you might be called and ordained even as Aaron;
Doctrine and Covenants 27:9     And also Elijah, unto whom I have committed the keys of the power of turning the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the hearts of the children to the fathers, that the whole earth may not be smitten with a curse;
Doctrine and Covenants 27:10     And also with Joseph and Jacob, and Isaac, and Abraham, your fathers, by whom the promises remain;
Doctrine and Covenants 27:11     And also with Michael, or Adam, the father of all, the prince of all, the ancient of days;
Doctrine and Covenants 27:12     And also with Peter, and James, and John, whom I have sent unto you, by whom I have ordained you and confirmed you to be apostles, and especial witnesses of my name, and bear the keys of your ministry and of the same things which I revealed unto them;
Doctrine and Covenants 27:13     Unto whom I have committed the keys of my kingdom, and a dispensation of the gospel for the last times; and for the fulness of times, in the which I will gather together in one all things, both which are in heaven, and which are on earth;
Doctrine and Covenants 27:14     And also with all those whom my Father hath given me out of the world.
Doctrine and Covenants 27:15     Wherefore, lift up your hearts and rejoice, and gird up your loins, and take upon you my whole armor, that ye may be able to withstand the evil day, having done all, that ye may be able to stand.
Doctrine and Covenants 27:16     Stand, therefore, having your loins girt about with truth, having on the breastplate of righteousness, and your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace, which I have sent mine angels to commit unto you;
Doctrine and Covenants 27:17     Taking the shield of faith wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked;
Doctrine and Covenants 27:18     And take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of my Spirit, which I will pour out upon you, and my word which I reveal unto you, and be agreed as touching all things whatsoever ye ask of me, and be faithful until I come, and ye shall be caught up, that where I am ye shall be also. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 28:1     Behold, I say unto thee, Oliver, that it shall be given unto thee that thou shalt be heard by the church in all things whatsoever thou shalt teach them by the Comforter, concerning the revelations and commandments which I have given.
Doctrine and Covenants 28:2     But, behold, verily, verily, I say unto thee, no one shall be appointed to receive commandments and revelations in this church excepting my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., for he receiveth them even as Moses.
Doctrine and Covenants 28:3     And thou shalt be obedient unto the things which I shall give unto him, even as Aaron, to declare faithfully the commandments and the revelations, with power and authority unto the church.
Doctrine and Covenants 28:4     And if thou art led at any time by the Comforter to speak or teach, or at all times by the way of commandment unto the church, thou mayest do it.
Doctrine and Covenants 28:5     But thou shalt not write by way of commandment, but by wisdom;
Doctrine and Covenants 28:6     And thou shalt not command him who is at thy head, and at the head of the church;
Doctrine and Covenants 28:7     For I have given him the keys of the mysteries, and the revelations which are sealed, until I shall appoint unto them another in his stead.
Doctrine and Covenants 28:8     And now, behold, I say unto you that you shall go unto the Lamanites and preach my gospel unto them; and inasmuch as they receive thy teachings thou shalt cause my church to be established among them; and thou shalt have revelations, but write them not by way of commandment.
Doctrine and Covenants 28:9     And now, behold, I say unto you that it is not revealed, and no man knoweth where the city Zion shall be built, but it shall be given hereafter. Behold, I say unto you that it shall be on the borders by the Lamanites.
Doctrine and Covenants 28:10     Thou shalt not leave this place until after the conference; and my servant Joseph shall be appointed to preside over the conference by the voice of it, and what he saith to thee thou shalt tell.
Doctrine and Covenants 28:11     And again, thou shalt take thy brother, Hiram Page, between him and thee alone, and tell him that those things which he hath written from that stone are not of me and that Satan deceiveth him;
Doctrine and Covenants 28:12     For, behold, these things have not been appointed unto him, neither shall anything be appointed unto any of this church contrary to the church covenants.
Doctrine and Covenants 28:13     For all things must be done in order, and by common consent in the church, by the prayer of faith.
Doctrine and Covenants 28:14     And thou shalt assist to settle all these things, according to the covenants of the church, before thou shalt take thy journey among the Lamanites.
Doctrine and Covenants 28:15     And it shall be given thee from the time thou shalt go, until the time thou shalt return, what thou shalt do.
Doctrine and Covenants 28:16     And thou must open thy mouth at all times, declaring my gospel with the sound of rejoicing. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 29:1     Listen to the voice of Jesus Christ, your Redeemer, the Great I Am, whose arm of mercy hath atoned for your sins;
Doctrine and Covenants 29:2     Who will gather his people even as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, even as many as will hearken to my voice and humble themselves before me, and call upon me in mighty prayer.
Doctrine and Covenants 29:3     Behold, verily, verily, I say unto you, that at this time your sins are forgiven you, therefore ye receive these things; but remember to sin no more, lest perils shall come upon you.
Doctrine and Covenants 29:4     Verily, I say unto you that ye are chosen out of the world to declare my gospel with the sound of rejoicing, as with the voice of a trump.
Doctrine and Covenants 29:5     Lift up your hearts and be glad, for I am in your midst, and am your advocate with the Father; and it is his good will to give you the kingdom.
Doctrine and Covenants 29:6     And, as it is written--Whatsoever ye shall ask in faith, being united in prayer according to my command, ye shall receive.
Doctrine and Covenants 29:7     And ye are called to bring to pass the gathering of mine elect; for mine elect hear my voice and harden not their hearts;
Doctrine and Covenants 29:8     Wherefore the decree hath gone forth from the Father that they shall be gathered in unto one place upon the face of this land, to prepare their hearts and be prepared in all things against the day when tribulation and desolation are sent forth upon the wicked.
Doctrine and Covenants 29:9     For the hour is nigh and the day soon at hand when the earth is ripe; and all the proud and they that do wickedly shall be as stubble; and I will burn them up, saith the Lord of Hosts, that wickedness shall not be upon the earth;
Doctrine and Covenants 29:10     For the hour is nigh, and that which was spoken by mine apostles must be fulfilled; for as they spoke so shall it come to pass;
Doctrine and Covenants 29:11     For I will reveal myself from heaven with power and great glory, with all the hosts thereof, and dwell in righteousness with men on earth a thousand years, and the wicked shall not stand.
Doctrine and Covenants 29:12     And again, verily, verily, I say unto you, and it hath gone forth in a firm decree, by the will of the Father, that mine apostles, the Twelve which were with me in my ministry at Jerusalem, shall stand at my right hand at the day of my coming in a pillar of fire, being clothed with robes of righteousness, with crowns upon their heads, in glory even as I am, to judge the whole house of Israel, even as many as have loved me and kept my commandments, and none else.
Doctrine and Covenants 29:13     For a trump shall sound both long and loud, even as upon Mount Sinai, and all the earth shall quake, and they shall come forth--yea, even the dead which died in me, to receive a crown of righteousness, and to be clothed upon, even as I am, to be with me, that we may be one.
Doctrine and Covenants 29:14     But, behold, I say unto you that before this great day shall come the sun shall be darkened, and the moon shall be turned into blood, and the stars shall fall from heaven, and there shall be greater signs in heaven above and in the earth beneath;
Doctrine and Covenants 29:15     And there shall be weeping and wailing among the hosts of men;
Doctrine and Covenants 29:16     And there shall be a great hailstorm sent forth to destroy the crops of the earth.
Doctrine and Covenants 29:17     And it shall come to pass, because of the wickedness of the world, that I will take vengeance upon the wicked, for they will not repent; for the cup of mine indignation is full; for behold, my blood shall not cleanse them if they hear me not.
Doctrine and Covenants 29:18     Wherefore, I the Lord God will send forth flies upon the face of the earth, which shall take hold of the inhabitants thereof, and shall eat their flesh, and shall cause maggots to come in upon them;
Doctrine and Covenants 29:19     And their tongues shall be stayed that they shall not utter against me; and their flesh shall fall from off their bones, and their eyes from their sockets;
Doctrine and Covenants 29:20     And it shall come to pass that the beasts of the forest and the fowls of the air shall devour them up.
Doctrine and Covenants 29:21     And the great and abominable church, which is the whore of all the earth, shall be cast down by devouring fire, according as it is spoken by the mouth of Ezekiel the prophet, who spoke of these things, which have not come to pass but surely must, as I live, for abominations shall not reign.
Doctrine and Covenants 29:22     And again, verily, verily, I say unto you that when the thousand years are ended, and men again begin to deny their God, then will I spare the earth but for a little season;
Doctrine and Covenants 29:23     And the end shall come, and the heaven and the earth shall be consumed and pass away, and there shall be a new heaven and a new earth.
Doctrine and Covenants 29:24     For all old things shall pass away, and all things shall become new, even the heaven and the earth, and all the fulness thereof, both men and beasts, the fowls of the air, and the fishes of the sea;
Doctrine and Covenants 29:25     And not one hair, neither mote, shall be lost, for it is the workmanship of mine hand.
Doctrine and Covenants 29:26     But, behold, verily I say unto you, before the earth shall pass away, Michael, mine archangel, shall sound his trump, and then shall all the dead awake, for their graves shall be opened, and they shall come forth--yea, even all.
Doctrine and Covenants 29:27     And the righteous shall be gathered on my right hand unto eternal life; and the wicked on my left hand will I be ashamed to own before the Father;
Doctrine and Covenants 29:28     Wherefore I will say unto them--Depart from me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire, prepared for the devil and his angels.
Doctrine and Covenants 29:29     And now, behold, I say unto you, never at any time have I declared from mine own mouth that they should return, for where I am they cannot come, for they have no power.
Doctrine and Covenants 29:30     But remember that all my judgments are not given unto men; and as the words have gone forth out of my mouth even so shall they be fulfilled, that the first shall be last, and that the last shall be first in all things whatsoever I have created by the word of my power, which is the power of my Spirit.
Doctrine and Covenants 29:31     For by the power of my Spirit created I them; yea, all things both spiritual and temporal--
Doctrine and Covenants 29:32     First spiritual, secondly temporal, which is the beginning of my work; and again, first temporal, and secondly spiritual, which is the last of my work--
Doctrine and Covenants 29:33     Speaking unto you that you may naturally understand; but unto myself my works have no end, neither beginning; but it is given unto you that ye may understand, because ye have asked it of me and are agreed.
Doctrine and Covenants 29:34     Wherefore, verily I say unto you that all things unto me are spiritual, and not at any time have I given unto you a law which was temporal; neither any man, nor the children of men; neither Adam, your father, whom I created.
Doctrine and Covenants 29:35     Behold, I gave unto him that he should be an agent unto himself; and I gave unto him commandment, but no temporal commandment gave I unto him, for my commandments are spiritual; they are not natural nor temporal, neither carnal nor sensual.
Doctrine and Covenants 29:36     And it came to pass that Adam, being tempted of the devil--for, behold, the devil was before Adam, for he rebelled against me, saying, Give me thine honor, which is my power; and also a third part of the hosts of heaven turned he away from me because of their agency;
Doctrine and Covenants 29:37     And they were thrust down, and thus came the devil and his angels;
Doctrine and Covenants 29:38     And, behold, there is a place prepared for them from the beginning, which place is hell.
Doctrine and Covenants 29:39     And it must needs be that the devil should tempt the children of men, or they could not be agents unto themselves; for if they never should have bitter they could not know the sweet--
Doctrine and Covenants 29:40     Wherefore, it came to pass that the devil tempted Adam, and he partook of the forbidden fruit and transgressed the commandment, wherein he became subject to the will of the devil, because he yielded unto temptation.
Doctrine and Covenants 29:41     Wherefore, I, the Lord God, caused that he should be cast out from the Garden of Eden, from my presence, because of his transgression, wherein he became spiritually dead, which is the first death, even that same death which is the last death, which is spiritual, which shall be pronounced upon the wicked when I shall say: Depart, ye cursed.
Doctrine and Covenants 29:42     But, behold, I say unto you that I, the Lord God, gave unto Adam and unto his seed, that they should not die as to the temporal death, until I, the Lord God, should send forth angels to declare unto them repentance and redemption, through faith on the name of mine Only Begotten Son.
Doctrine and Covenants 29:43     And thus did I, the Lord God, appoint unto man the days of his probation--that by his natural death he might be raised in immortality unto eternal life, even as many as would believe;
Doctrine and Covenants 29:44     And they that believe not unto eternal damnation; for they cannot be redeemed from their spiritual fall, because they repent not;
Doctrine and Covenants 29:45     For they love darkness rather than light, and their deeds are evil, and they receive their wages of whom they list to obey.
Doctrine and Covenants 29:46     But behold, I say unto you, that little children are redeemed from the foundation of the world through mine Only Begotten;
Doctrine and Covenants 29:47     Wherefore, they cannot sin, for power is not given unto Satan to tempt little children, until they begin to become accountable before me;
Doctrine and Covenants 29:48     For it is given unto them even as I will, according to mine own pleasure, that great things may be required at the hand of their fathers.
Doctrine and Covenants 29:49     And, again, I say unto you, that whoso having knowledge, have I not commanded to repent?
Doctrine and Covenants 29:50     And he that hath no understanding, it remaineth in me to do according as it is written. And now I declare no more unto you at this time. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 30:1     Behold, I say unto you, David, that you have feared man and have not relied on me for strength as you ought.
Doctrine and Covenants 30:2     But your mind has been on the things of the earth more than on the things of me, your Maker, and the ministry whereunto you have been called; and you have not given heed unto my Spirit, and to those who were set over you, but have been persuaded by those whom I have not commanded.
Doctrine and Covenants 30:3     Wherefore, you are left to inquire for yourself at my hand, and ponder upon the things which you have received.
Doctrine and Covenants 30:4     And your home shall be at your father's house, until I give unto you further commandments. And you shall attend to the ministry in the church, and before the world, and in the regions round about. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 30:5     Behold, I say unto you, Peter, that you shall take your journey with your brother Oliver; for the time has come that it is expedient in me that you shall open your mouth to declare my gospel; therefore, fear not, but give heed unto the words and advice of your brother, which he shall give you.
Doctrine and Covenants 30:6     And be you afflicted in all his afflictions, ever lifting up your heart unto me in prayer and faith, for his and your deliverance; for I have given unto him power to build up my church among the Lamanites;
Doctrine and Covenants 30:7     And none have I appointed to be his counselor over him in the church, concerning church matters, except it is his brother, Joseph Smith, Jun.
Doctrine and Covenants 30:8     Wherefore, give heed unto these things and be diligent in keeping my commandments, and you shall be blessed unto eternal life. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 30:9     Behold, I say unto you, my servant John, that thou shalt commence from this time forth to proclaim my gospel, as with the voice of a trump.
Doctrine and Covenants 30:10     And your labor shall be at your brother Philip Burroughs', and in that region round about, yea, wherever you can be heard, until I command you to go from hence.
Doctrine and Covenants 30:11     And your whole labor shall be in Zion, with all your soul, from henceforth; yea, you shall ever open your mouth in my cause, not fearing what man can do, for I am with you. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 31:1     Thomas, my son, blessed are you because of your faith in my work.
Doctrine and Covenants 31:2     Behold, you have had many afflictions because of your family; nevertheless, I will bless you and your family, yea, your little ones; and the day cometh that they will believe and know the truth and be one with you in my church.
Doctrine and Covenants 31:3     Lift up your heart and rejoice, for the hour of your mission is come; and your tongue shall be loosed, and you shall declare glad tidings of great joy unto this generation.
Doctrine and Covenants 31:4     You shall declare the things which have been revealed to my servant, Joseph Smith, Jun. You shall begin to preach from this time forth, yea, to reap in the field which is white already to be burned.
Doctrine and Covenants 31:5     Therefore, thrust in your sickle with all your soul, and your sins are forgiven you, and you shall be laden with sheaves upon your back, for the laborer is worthy of his hire. Wherefore, your family shall live.
Doctrine and Covenants 31:6     Behold, verily I say unto you, go from them only for a little time, and declare my word, and I will prepare a place for them.
Doctrine and Covenants 31:7     Yea, I will open the hearts of the people, and they will receive you. And I will establish a church by your hand;
Doctrine and Covenants 31:8     And you shall strengthen them and prepare them against the time when they shall be gathered.
Doctrine and Covenants 31:9     Be patient in afflictions, revile not against those that revile. Govern your house in meekness, and be steadfast.
Doctrine and Covenants 31:10     Behold, I say unto you that you shall be a physician unto the church, but not unto the world, for they will not receive you.
Doctrine and Covenants 31:11     Go your way whithersoever I will, and it shall be given you by the Comforter what you shall do and whither you shall go.
Doctrine and Covenants 31:12     Pray always, lest you enter into temptation and lose your reward.
Doctrine and Covenants 31:13     Be faithful unto the end, and lo, I am with you. These words are not of man nor of men, but of me, even Jesus Christ, your Redeemer, by the will of the Father. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 32:1     And now concerning my servant Parley P. Pratt, behold, I say unto him that as I live I will that he shall declare my gospel and learn of me, and be meek and lowly of heart.
Doctrine and Covenants 32:2     And that which I have appointed unto him is that he shall go with my servants, Oliver Cowdery and Peter Whitmer, Jun., into the wilderness among the Lamanites.
Doctrine and Covenants 32:3     And Ziba Peterson also shall go with them; and I myself will go with them and be in their midst; and I am their advocate with the Father, and nothing shall prevail against them.
Doctrine and Covenants 32:4     And they shall give heed to that which is written, and pretend to no other revelation; and they shall pray always that I may unfold the same to their understanding.
Doctrine and Covenants 32:5     And they shall give heed unto these words and trifle not, and I will bless them. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 33:1     Behold, I say unto you, my servants Ezra and Northrop, open ye your ears and hearken to the voice of the Lord your God, whose word is quick and powerful, sharper than a two-edged sword, to the dividing asunder of the joints and marrow, soul and spirit; and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart.
Doctrine and Covenants 33:2     For verily, verily, I say unto you that ye are called to lift up your voices as with the sound of a trump, to declare my gospel unto a crooked and perverse generation.
Doctrine and Covenants 33:3     For behold, the field is white already to harvest; and it is the eleventh hour, and the last time that I shall call laborers into my vineyard.
Doctrine and Covenants 33:4     And my vineyard has become corrupted every whit; and there is none which doeth good save it be a few; and they err in many instances because of priestcrafts, all having corrupt minds.
Doctrine and Covenants 33:5     And verily, verily, I say unto you, that this church have I established and called forth out of the wilderness.
Doctrine and Covenants 33:6     And even so will I gather mine elect from the four quarters of the earth, even as many as will believe in me, and hearken unto my voice.
Doctrine and Covenants 33:7     Yea, verily, verily, I say unto you, that the field is white already to harvest; wherefore, thrust in your sickles, and reap with all your might, mind, and strength.
Doctrine and Covenants 33:8     Open your mouths and they shall be filled, and you shall become even as Nephi of old, who journeyed from Jerusalem in the wilderness.
Doctrine and Covenants 33:9     Yea, open your mouths and spare not, and you shall be laden with sheaves upon your backs, for lo, I am with you.
Doctrine and Covenants 33:10     Yea, open your mouths and they shall be filled, saying: Repent, repent, and prepare ye the way of the Lord, and make his paths straight; for the kingdom of heaven is at hand;
Doctrine and Covenants 33:11     Yea, repent and be baptized, every one of you, for a remission of your sins; yea, be baptized even by water, and then cometh the baptism of fire and of the Holy Ghost.
Doctrine and Covenants 33:12     Behold, verily, verily, I say unto you, this is my gospel; and remember that they shall have faith in me or they can in nowise be saved;
Doctrine and Covenants 33:13     And upon this rock I will build my church; yea, upon this rock ye are built, and if ye continue, the gates of hell shall not prevail against you.
Doctrine and Covenants 33:14     And ye shall remember the church articles and covenants to keep them.
Doctrine and Covenants 33:15     And whoso having faith you shall confirm in my church, by the laying on of the hands, and I will bestow the gift of the Holy Ghost upon them.
Doctrine and Covenants 33:16     And the Book of Mormon and the holy scriptures are given of me for your instruction; and the power of my Spirit quickeneth all things.
Doctrine and Covenants 33:17     Wherefore, be faithful, praying always, having your lamps trimmed and burning, and oil with you, that you may be ready at the coming of the Bridegroom--
Doctrine and Covenants 33:18     For behold, verily, verily, I say unto you, that I come quickly. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 34:1     My son Orson, hearken and hear and behold what I, the Lord God, shall say unto you, even Jesus Christ your Redeemer;
Doctrine and Covenants 34:2     The light and the life of the world, a light which shineth in darkness and the darkness comprehendeth it not;
Doctrine and Covenants 34:3     Who so loved the world that he gave his own life, that as many as would believe might become the sons of God. Wherefore you are my son;
Doctrine and Covenants 34:4     And blessed are you because you have believed;
Doctrine and Covenants 34:5     And more blessed are you because you are called of me to preach my gospel--
Doctrine and Covenants 34:6     To lift up your voice as with the sound of a trump, both long and loud, and cry repentance unto a crooked and perverse generation, preparing the way of the Lord for his second coming.
Doctrine and Covenants 34:7     For behold, verily, verily, I say unto you, the time is soon at hand that I shall come in a cloud with power and great glory.
Doctrine and Covenants 34:8     And it shall be a great day at the time of my coming, for all nations shall tremble.
Doctrine and Covenants 34:9     But before that great day shall come, the sun shall be darkened, and the moon be turned into blood; and the stars shall refuse their shining, and some shall fall, and great destructions await the wicked.
Doctrine and Covenants 34:10     Wherefore, lift up your voice and spare not, for the Lord God hath spoken; therefore prophesy, and it shall be given by the power of the Holy Ghost.
Doctrine and Covenants 34:11     And if you are faithful, behold, I am with you until I come--
Doctrine and Covenants 34:12     And verily, verily, I say unto you, I come quickly. I am your Lord and your Redeemer. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 35:1     Listen to the voice of the Lord your God, even Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, whose course is one eternal round, the same today as yesterday, and forever.
Doctrine and Covenants 35:2     I am Jesus Christ, the Son of God, who was crucified for the sins of the world, even as many as will believe on my name, that they may become the sons of God, even one in me as I am one in the Father, as the Father is one in me, that we may be one.
Doctrine and Covenants 35:3     Behold, verily, verily, I say unto my servant Sidney, I have looked upon thee and thy works. I have heard thy prayers, and prepared thee for a greater work.
Doctrine and Covenants 35:4     Thou art blessed, for thou shalt do great things. Behold thou wast sent forth, even as John, to prepare the way before me, and before Elijah which should come, and thou knewest it not.
Doctrine and Covenants 35:5     Thou didst baptize by water unto repentance, but they received not the Holy Ghost;
Doctrine and Covenants 35:6     But now I give unto thee a commandment, that thou shalt baptize by water, and they shall receive the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands, even as the apostles of old.
Doctrine and Covenants 35:7     And it shall come to pass that there shall be a great work in the land, even among the Gentiles, for their folly and their abominations shall be made manifest in the eyes of all people.
Doctrine and Covenants 35:8     For I am God, and mine arm is not shortened; and I will show miracles, signs, and wonders, unto all those who believe on my name.
Doctrine and Covenants 35:9     And whoso shall ask it in my name in faith, they shall cast out devils; they shall heal the sick; they shall cause the blind to receive their sight, and the deaf to hear, and the dumb to speak, and the lame to walk.
Doctrine and Covenants 35:10     And the time speedily cometh that great things are to be shown forth unto the children of men;
Doctrine and Covenants 35:11     But without faith shall not anything be shown forth except desolations upon Babylon, the same which has made all nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication.
Doctrine and Covenants 35:12     And there are none that doeth good except those who are ready to receive the fulness of my gospel, which I have sent forth unto this generation.
Doctrine and Covenants 35:13     Wherefore, I call upon the weak things of the world, those who are unlearned and despised, to thresh the nations by the power of my Spirit;
Doctrine and Covenants 35:14     And their arm shall be my arm, and I will be their shield and their buckler; and I will gird up their loins, and they shall fight manfully for me; and their enemies shall be under their feet; and I will let fall the sword in their behalf, and by the fire of mine indignation will I preserve them.
Doctrine and Covenants 35:15     And the poor and the meek shall have the gospel preached unto them, and they shall be looking forth for the time of my coming, for it is nigh at hand--
Doctrine and Covenants 35:16     And they shall learn the parable of the fig tree, for even now already summer is nigh.
Doctrine and Covenants 35:17     And I have sent forth the fulness of my gospel by the hand of my servant Joseph; and in weakness have I blessed him;
Doctrine and Covenants 35:18     And I have given unto him the keys of the mystery of those things which have been sealed, even things which were from the foundation of the world, and the things which shall come from this time until the time of my coming, if he abide in me, and if not, another will I plant in his stead.
Doctrine and Covenants 35:19     Wherefore, watch over him that his faith fail not, and it shall be given by the Comforter, the Holy Ghost, that knoweth all things.
Doctrine and Covenants 35:20     And a commandment I give unto thee--that thou shalt write for him; and the scriptures shall be given, even as they are in mine own bosom, to the salvation of mine own elect;
Doctrine and Covenants 35:21     For they will hear my voice, and shall see me, and shall not be asleep, and shall abide the day of my coming; for they shall be purified, even as I am pure.
Doctrine and Covenants 35:22     And now I say unto you, tarry with him, and he shall journey with you; forsake him not, and surely these things shall be fulfilled.
Doctrine and Covenants 35:23     And inasmuch as ye do not write, behold, it shall be given unto him to prophesy; and thou shalt preach my gospel and call on the holy prophets to prove his words, as they shall be given him.
Doctrine and Covenants 35:24     Keep all the commandments and covenants by which ye are bound; and I will cause the heavens to shake for your good, and Satan shall tremble and Zion shall rejoice upon the hills and flourish;
Doctrine and Covenants 35:25     And Israel shall be saved in mine own due time; and by the keys which I have given shall they be led, and no more be confounded at all.
Doctrine and Covenants 35:26     Lift up your hearts and be glad, your redemption draweth nigh.
Doctrine and Covenants 35:27     Fear not, little flock, the kingdom is yours until I come. Behold, I come quickly. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 36:1     Thus saith the Lord God, the Mighty One of Israel: Behold, I say unto you, my servant Edward, that you are blessed, and your sins are forgiven you, and you are called to preach my gospel as with the voice of a trump;
Doctrine and Covenants 36:2     And I will lay my hand upon you by the hand of my servant Sidney Rigdon, and you shall receive my Spirit, the Holy Ghost, even the Comforter, which shall teach you the peaceable things of the kingdom;
Doctrine and Covenants 36:3     And you shall declare it with a loud voice, saying: Hosanna, blessed be the name of the most high God.
Doctrine and Covenants 36:4     And now this calling and commandment give I unto you concerning all men--
Doctrine and Covenants 36:5     That as many as shall come before my servants Sidney Rigdon and Joseph Smith, Jun., embracing this calling and commandment, shall be ordained and sent forth to preach the everlasting gospel among the nations--
Doctrine and Covenants 36:6     Crying repentance, saying: Save yourselves from this untoward generation, and come forth out of the fire, hating even the garments spotted with the flesh.
Doctrine and Covenants 36:7     And this commandment shall be given unto the elders of my church, that every man which will embrace it with singleness of heart may be ordained and sent forth, even as I have spoken.
Doctrine and Covenants 36:8     I am Jesus Christ, the Son of God; wherefore, gird up your loins and I will suddenly come to my temple. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 37:1     Behold, I say unto you that it is not expedient in me that ye should translate any more until ye shall go to the Ohio, and this because of the enemy and for your sakes.
Doctrine and Covenants 37:2     And again, I say unto you that ye shall not go until ye have preached my gospel in those parts, and have strengthened up the church whithersoever it is found, and more especially in Colesville; for, behold, they pray unto me in much faith.
Doctrine and Covenants 37:3     And again, a commandment I give unto the church, that it is expedient in me that they should assemble together at the Ohio, against the time that my servant Oliver Cowdery shall return unto them.
Doctrine and Covenants 37:4     Behold, here is wisdom, and let every man choose for himself until I come. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 38:1     Thus saith the Lord your God, even Jesus Christ, the Great I Am, Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, the same which looked upon the wide expanse of eternity, and all the seraphic hosts of heaven, before the world was made;
Doctrine and Covenants 38:2     The same which knoweth all things, for all things are present before mine eyes;
Doctrine and Covenants 38:3     I am the same which spake, and the world was made, and all things came by me.
Doctrine and Covenants 38:4     I am the same which have taken the Zion of Enoch into mine own bosom; and verily, I say, even as many as have believed in my name, for I am Christ, and in mine own name, by the virtue of the blood which I have spilt, have I pleaded before the Father for them.
Doctrine and Covenants 38:5     But behold, the residue of the wicked have I kept in chains of darkness until the judgment of the great day, which shall come at the end of the earth;
Doctrine and Covenants 38:6     And even so will I cause the wicked to be kept, that will not hear my voice but harden their hearts, and wo, wo, wo, is their doom.
Doctrine and Covenants 38:7     But behold, verily, verily, I say unto you that mine eyes are upon you. I am in your midst and ye cannot see me;
Doctrine and Covenants 38:8     But the day soon cometh that ye shall see me, and know that I am; for the veil of darkness shall soon be rent, and he that is not purified shall not abide the day.
Doctrine and Covenants 38:9     Wherefore, gird up your loins and be prepared. Behold, the kingdom is yours, and the enemy shall not overcome.
Doctrine and Covenants 38:10     Verily I say unto you, ye are clean, but not all; and there is none else with whom I am well pleased;
Doctrine and Covenants 38:11     For all flesh is corrupted before me; and the powers of darkness prevail upon the earth, among the children of men, in the presence of all the hosts of heaven--
Doctrine and Covenants 38:12     Which causeth silence to reign, and all eternity is pained, and the angels are waiting the great command to reap down the earth, to gather the tares that they may be burned; and, behold, the enemy is combined.
Doctrine and Covenants 38:13     And now I show unto you a mystery, a thing which is had in secret chambers, to bring to pass even your destruction in process of time, and ye knew it not;
Doctrine and Covenants 38:14     But now I tell it unto you, and ye are blessed, not because of your iniquity, neither your hearts of unbelief; for verily some of you are guilty before me, but I will be merciful unto your weakness.
Doctrine and Covenants 38:15     Therefore, be ye strong from henceforth; fear not, for the kingdom is yours.
Doctrine and Covenants 38:16     And for your salvation I give unto you a commandment, for I have heard your prayers, and the poor have complained before me, and the rich have I made, and all flesh is mine, and I am no respecter of persons.
Doctrine and Covenants 38:17     And I have made the earth rich, and behold it is my footstool, wherefore, again I will stand upon it.
Doctrine and Covenants 38:18     And I hold forth and deign to give unto you greater riches, even a land of promise, a land flowing with milk and honey, upon which there shall be no curse when the Lord cometh;
Doctrine and Covenants 38:19     And I will give it unto you for the land of your inheritance, if you seek it with all your hearts.
Doctrine and Covenants 38:20     And this shall be my covenant with you, ye shall have it for the land of your inheritance, and for the inheritance of your children forever, while the earth shall stand, and ye shall possess it again in eternity, no more to pass away.
Doctrine and Covenants 38:21     But, verily I say unto you that in time ye shall have no king nor ruler, for I will be your king and watch over you.
Doctrine and Covenants 38:22     Wherefore, hear my voice and follow me, and you shall be a free people, and ye shall have no laws but my laws when I come, for I am your lawgiver, and what can stay my hand?
Doctrine and Covenants 38:23     But, verily I say unto you, teach one another according to the office wherewith I have appointed you;
Doctrine and Covenants 38:24     And let every man esteem his brother as himself, and practice virtue and holiness before me.
Doctrine and Covenants 38:25     And again I say unto you, let every man esteem his brother as himself.
Doctrine and Covenants 38:26     For what man among you having twelve sons, and is no respecter of them, and they serve him obediently, and he saith unto the one: Be thou clothed in robes and sit thou here; and to the other: Be thou clothed in rags and sit thou there--and looketh upon his sons and saith I am just?
Doctrine and Covenants 38:27     Behold, this I have given unto you as a parable, and it is even as I am. I say unto you, be one; and if ye are not one ye are not mine.
Doctrine and Covenants 38:28     And again, I say unto you that the enemy in the secret chambers seeketh your lives.
Doctrine and Covenants 38:29     Ye hear of wars in far countries, and you say that there will soon be great wars in far countries, but ye know not the hearts of men in your own land.
Doctrine and Covenants 38:30     I tell you these things because of your prayers; wherefore, treasure up wisdom in your bosoms, lest the wickedness of men reveal these things unto you by their wickedness, in a manner which shall speak in your ears with a voice louder than that which shall shake the earth; but if ye are prepared ye shall not fear.
Doctrine and Covenants 38:31     And that ye might escape the power of the enemy, and be gathered unto me a righteous people, without spot and blameless--
Doctrine and Covenants 38:32     Wherefore, for this cause I gave unto you the commandment that ye should go to the Ohio; and there I will give unto you my law; and there you shall be endowed with power from on high;
Doctrine and Covenants 38:33     And from thence, whosoever I will shall go forth among all nations, and it shall be told them what they shall do; for I have a great work laid up in store, for Israel shall be saved, and I will lead them whithersoever I will, and no power shall stay my hand.
Doctrine and Covenants 38:34     And now, I give unto the church in these parts a commandment, that certain men among them shall be appointed, and they shall be appointed by the voice of the church;
Doctrine and Covenants 38:35     And they shall look to the poor and the needy, and administer to their relief that they shall not suffer; and send them forth to the place which I have commanded them;
Doctrine and Covenants 38:36     And this shall be their work, to govern the affairs of the property of this church.
Doctrine and Covenants 38:37     And they that have farms that cannot be sold, let them be left or rented as seemeth them good.
Doctrine and Covenants 38:38     See that all things are preserved; and when men are endowed with power from on high and sent forth, all these things shall be gathered unto the bosom of the church.
Doctrine and Covenants 38:39     And if ye seek the riches which it is the will of the Father to give unto you, ye shall be the richest of all people, for ye shall have the riches of eternity; and it must needs be that the riches of the earth are mine to give; but beware of pride, lest ye become as the Nephites of old.
Doctrine and Covenants 38:40     And again, I say unto you, I give unto you a commandment, that every man, both elder, priest, teacher, and also member, go to with his might, with the labor of his hands, to prepare and accomplish the things which I have commanded.
Doctrine and Covenants 38:41     And let your preaching be the warning voice, every man to his neighbor, in mildness and in meekness.
Doctrine and Covenants 38:42     And go ye out from among the wicked. Save yourselves. Be ye clean that bear the vessels of the Lord. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 39:1     Hearken and listen to the voice of him who is from all eternity to all eternity, the Great I Am, even Jesus Christ--
Doctrine and Covenants 39:2     The light and the life of the world; a light which shineth in darkness and the darkness comprehendeth it not;
Doctrine and Covenants 39:3     The same which came in the meridian of time unto mine own, and mine own received me not;
Doctrine and Covenants 39:4     But to as many as received me, gave I power to become my sons; and even so will I give unto as many as will receive me, power to become my sons.
Doctrine and Covenants 39:5     And verily, verily, I say unto you, he that receiveth my gospel receiveth me; and he that receiveth not my gospel receiveth not me.
Doctrine and Covenants 39:6     And this is my gospel--repentance and baptism by water, and then cometh the baptism of fire and the Holy Ghost, even the Comforter, which showeth all things, and teacheth the peaceable things of the kingdom.
Doctrine and Covenants 39:7     And now, behold, I say unto you, my servant James, I have looked upon thy works and I know thee.
Doctrine and Covenants 39:8     And verily I say unto thee, thine heart is now right before me at this time; and, behold, I have bestowed great blessings upon thy head;
Doctrine and Covenants 39:9     Nevertheless, thou hast seen great sorrow, for thou hast rejected me many times because of pride and the cares of the world.
Doctrine and Covenants 39:10     But, behold, the days of thy deliverance are come, if thou wilt hearken to my voice, which saith unto thee: Arise and be baptized, and wash away your sins, calling on my name, and you shall receive my Spirit, and a blessing so great as you never have known.
Doctrine and Covenants 39:11     And if thou do this, I have prepared thee for a greater work. Thou shalt preach the fulness of my gospel, which I have sent forth in these last days, the covenant which I have sent forth to recover my people, which are of the house of Israel.
Doctrine and Covenants 39:12     And it shall come to pass that power shall rest upon thee; thou shalt have great faith, and I will be with thee and go before thy face.
Doctrine and Covenants 39:13     Thou art called to labor in my vineyard, and to build up my church, and to bring forth Zion, that it may rejoice upon the hills and flourish.
Doctrine and Covenants 39:14     Behold, verily, verily, I say unto thee, thou art not called to go into the eastern countries, but thou art called to go to the Ohio.
Doctrine and Covenants 39:15     And inasmuch as my people shall assemble themselves at the Ohio, I have kept in store a blessing such as is not known among the children of men, and it shall be poured forth upon their heads. And from thence men shall go forth into all nations.
Doctrine and Covenants 39:16     Behold, verily, verily, I say unto you, that the people in Ohio call upon me in much faith, thinking I will stay my hand in judgment upon the nations, but I cannot deny my word.
Doctrine and Covenants 39:17     Wherefore lay to with your might and call faithful laborers into my vineyard, that it may be pruned for the last time.
Doctrine and Covenants 39:18     And inasmuch as they do repent and receive the fulness of my gospel, and become sanctified, I will stay mine hand in judgment.
Doctrine and Covenants 39:19     Wherefore, go forth, crying with a loud voice, saying: The kingdom of heaven is at hand; crying: Hosanna! blessed be the name of the Most High God.
Doctrine and Covenants 39:20     Go forth baptizing with water, preparing the way before my face for the time of my coming;
Doctrine and Covenants 39:21     For the time is at hand; the day or the hour no man knoweth; but it surely shall come.
Doctrine and Covenants 39:22     And he that receiveth these things receiveth me; and they shall be gathered unto me in time and in eternity.
Doctrine and Covenants 39:23     And again, it shall come to pass that on as many as ye shall baptize with water, ye shall lay your hands, and they shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, and shall be looking forth for the signs of my coming, and shall know me.
Doctrine and Covenants 39:24     Behold, I come quickly. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 40:1     Behold, verily I say unto you, that the heart of my servant James Covel was right before me, for he covenanted with me that he would obey my word.
Doctrine and Covenants 40:2     And he received the word with gladness, but straightway Satan tempted him; and the fear of persecution and the cares of the world caused him to reject the word.
Doctrine and Covenants 40:3     Wherefore he broke my covenant, and it remaineth with me to do with him as seemeth me good. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 41:1     Hearken and hear, O ye my people, saith the Lord and your God, ye whom I delight to bless with the greatest of all blessings, ye that hear me; and ye that hear me not will I curse, that have professed my name, with the heaviest of all cursings.
Doctrine and Covenants 41:2     Hearken, O ye elders of my church whom I have called, behold I give unto you a commandment, that ye shall assemble yourselves together to agree upon my word;
Doctrine and Covenants 41:3     And by the prayer of your faith ye shall receive my law, that ye may know how to govern my church and have all things right before me.
Doctrine and Covenants 41:4     And I will be your ruler when I come; and behold, I come quickly, and ye shall see that my law is kept.
Doctrine and Covenants 41:5     He that receiveth my law and doeth it, the same is my disciple; and he that saith he receiveth it and doeth it not, the same is not my disciple, and shall be cast out from among you;
Doctrine and Covenants 41:6     For it is not meet that the things which belong to the children of the kingdom should be given to them that are not worthy, or to dogs, or the pearls to be cast before swine.
Doctrine and Covenants 41:7     And again, it is meet that my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., should have a house built, in which to live and translate.
Doctrine and Covenants 41:8     And again, it is meet that my servant Sidney Rigdon should live as seemeth him good, inasmuch as he keepeth my commandments.
Doctrine and Covenants 41:9     And again, I have called my servant Edward Partridge; and I give a commandment, that he should be appointed by the voice of the church, and ordained a bishop unto the church, to leave his merchandise and to spend all his time in the labors of the church;
Doctrine and Covenants 41:10     To see to all things as it shall be appointed unto him in my laws in the day that I shall give them.
Doctrine and Covenants 41:11     And this because his heart is pure before me, for he is like unto Nathanael of old, in whom there is no guile.
Doctrine and Covenants 41:12     These words are given unto you, and they are pure before me; wherefore, beware how you hold them, for they are to be answered upon your souls in the day of judgment. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:1     Hearken, O ye elders of my church, who have assembled yourselves together in my name, even Jesus Christ the Son of the living God, the Savior of the world; inasmuch as ye believe on my name and keep my commandments.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:2     Again I say unto you, hearken and hear and obey the law which I shall give unto you.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:3     For verily I say, as ye have assembled yourselves together according to the commandment wherewith I commanded you, and are agreed as touching this one thing, and have asked the Father in my name, even so ye shall receive.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:4     Behold, verily I say unto you, I give unto you this first commandment, that ye shall go forth in my name, every one of you, excepting my servants Joseph Smith, Jun., and Sidney Rigdon.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:5     And I give unto them a commandment that they shall go forth for a little season, and it shall be given by the power of the Spirit when they shall return.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:6     And ye shall go forth in the power of my Spirit, preaching my gospel, two by two, in my name, lifting up your voices as with the sound of a trump, declaring my word like unto angels of God.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:7     And ye shall go forth baptizing with water, saying: Repent ye, repent ye, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:8     And from this place ye shall go forth into the regions westward; and inasmuch as ye shall find them that will receive you ye shall build up my church in every region--
Doctrine and Covenants 42:9     Until the time shall come when it shall be revealed unto you from on high, when the city of the New Jerusalem shall be prepared, that ye may be gathered in one, that ye may be my people and I will be your God.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:10     And again, I say unto you, that my servant Edward Partridge shall stand in the office whereunto I have appointed him. And it shall come to pass, that if he transgress another shall be appointed in his stead. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:11     Again I say unto you, that it shall not be given to any one to go forth to preach my gospel, or to build up my church, except he be ordained by some one who has authority, and it is known to the church that he has authority and has been regularly ordained by the heads of the church.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:12     And again, the elders, priests and teachers of this church shall teach the principles of my gospel, which are in the Bible and the Book of Mormon, in the which is the fulness of the gospel.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:13     And they shall observe the covenants and church articles to do them, and these shall be their teachings, as they shall be directed by the Spirit.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:14     And the Spirit shall be given unto you by the prayer of faith; and if ye receive not the Spirit ye shall not teach.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:15     And all this ye shall observe to do as I have commanded concerning your teaching, until the fulness of my scriptures is given.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:16     And as ye shall lift up your voices by the Comforter, ye shall speak and prophesy as seemeth me good;
Doctrine and Covenants 42:17     For, behold, the Comforter knoweth all things, and beareth record of the Father and of the Son.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:18     And now, behold, I speak unto the church. Thou shalt not kill; and he that kills shall not have forgiveness in this world, nor in the world to come.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:19     And again, I say, thou shalt not kill; but he that killeth shall die.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:20     Thou shalt not steal; and he that stealeth and will not repent shall be cast out.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:21     Thou shalt not lie; he that lieth and will not repent shall be cast out.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:22     Thou shalt love thy wife with all thy heart, and shalt cleave unto her and none else.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:23     And he that looketh upon a woman to lust after her shall deny the faith, and shall not have the Spirit; and if he repents not he shall be cast out.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:24     Thou shalt not commit adultery; and he that committeth adultery, and repenteth not, shall be cast out.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:25     But he that has committed adultery and repents with all his heart, and forsaketh it, and doeth it no more, thou shalt forgive;
Doctrine and Covenants 42:26     But if he doeth it again, he shall not be forgiven, but shall be cast out.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:27     Thou shalt not speak evil of thy neighbor, nor do him any harm.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:28     Thou knowest my laws concerning these things are given in my scriptures; he that sinneth and repenteth not shall be cast out.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:29     If thou lovest me thou shalt serve me and keep all my commandments.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:30     And behold, thou wilt remember the poor, and consecrate of thy properties for their support that which thou hast to impart unto them, with a covenant and a deed which cannot be broken.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:31     And inasmuch as ye impart of your substance unto the poor, ye will do it unto me; and they shall be laid before the bishop of my church and his counselors, two of the elders, or high priests, such as he shall appoint or has appointed and set apart for that purpose.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:32     And it shall come to pass, that after they are laid before the bishop of my church, and after that he has received these testimonies concerning the consecration of the properties of my church, that they cannot be taken from the church, agreeable to my commandments, every man shall be made accountable unto me, a steward over his own property, or that which he has received by consecration, as much as is sufficient for himself and family.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:33     And again, if there shall be properties in the hands of the church, or any individuals of it, more than is necessary for their support after this first consecration, which is a residue to be consecrated unto the bishop, it shall be kept to administer to those who have not, from time to time, that every man who has need may be amply supplied and receive according to his wants.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:34     Therefore, the residue shall be kept in my storehouse, to administer to the poor and the needy, as shall be appointed by the high council of the church, and the bishop and his council;
Doctrine and Covenants 42:35     And for the purpose of purchasing lands for the public benefit of the church, and building houses of worship, and building up of the New Jerusalem which is hereafter to be revealed--
Doctrine and Covenants 42:36     That my covenant people may be gathered in one in that day when I shall come to my temple. And this I do for the salvation of my people.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:37     And it shall come to pass, that he that sinneth and repenteth not shall be cast out of the church, and shall not receive again that which he has consecrated unto the poor and the needy of my church, or in other words, unto me--
Doctrine and Covenants 42:38     For inasmuch as ye do it unto the least of these, ye do it unto me.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:39     For it shall come to pass, that which I spake by the mouths of my prophets shall be fulfilled; for I will consecrate of the riches of those who embrace my gospel among the Gentiles unto the poor of my people who are of the house of Israel.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:40     And again, thou shalt not be proud in thy heart; let all thy garments be plain, and their beauty the beauty of the work of thine own hands;
Doctrine and Covenants 42:41     And let all things be done in cleanliness before me.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:42     Thou shalt not be idle; for he that is idle shall not eat the bread nor wear the garments of the laborer.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:43     And whosoever among you are sick, and have not faith to be healed, but believe, shall be nourished with all tenderness, with herbs and mild food, and that not by the hand of an enemy.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:44     And the elders of the church, two or more, shall be called, and shall pray for and lay their hands upon them in my name; and if they die they shall die unto me, and if they live they shall live unto me.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:45     Thou shalt live together in love, insomuch that thou shalt weep for the loss of them that die, and more especially for those that have not hope of a glorious resurrection.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:46     And it shall come to pass that those that die in me shall not taste of death, for it shall be sweet unto them;
Doctrine and Covenants 42:47     And they that die not in me, wo unto them, for their death is bitter.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:48     And again, it shall come to pass that he that hath faith in me to be healed, and is not appointed unto death, shall be healed.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:49     He who hath faith to see shall see.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:50     He who hath faith to hear shall hear.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:51     The lame who hath faith to leap shall leap.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:52     And they who have not faith to do these things, but believe in me, have power to become my sons; and inasmuch as they break not my laws thou shalt bear their infirmities.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:53     Thou shalt stand in the place of thy stewardship.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:54     Thou shalt not take thy brother's garment; thou shalt pay for that which thou shalt receive of thy brother.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:55     And if thou obtainest more than that which would be for thy support, thou shalt give it into my storehouse, that all things may be done according to that which I have said.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:56     Thou shalt ask, and my scriptures shall be given as I have appointed, and they shall be preserved in safety;
Doctrine and Covenants 42:57     And it is expedient that thou shouldst hold thy peace concerning them, and not teach them until ye have received them in full.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:58     And I give unto you a commandment that then ye shall teach them unto all men; for they shall be taught unto all nations, kindreds, tongues and people.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:59     Thou shalt take the things which thou hast received, which have been given unto thee in my scriptures for a law, to be my law to govern my church;
Doctrine and Covenants 42:60     And he that doeth according to these things shall be saved, and he that doeth them not shall be damned if he so continue.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:61     If thou shalt ask, thou shalt receive revelation upon revelation, knowledge upon knowledge, that thou mayest know the mysteries and peaceable things--that which bringeth joy, that which bringeth life eternal.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:62     Thou shalt ask, and it shall be revealed unto you in mine own due time where the New Jerusalem shall be built.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:63     And behold, it shall come to pass that my servants shall be sent forth to the east and to the west, to the north and to the south.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:64     And even now, let him that goeth to the east teach them that shall be converted to flee to the west, and this in consequence of that which is coming on the earth, and of secret combinations.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:65     Behold, thou shalt observe all these things, and great shall be thy reward; for unto you it is given to know the mysteries of the kingdom, but unto the world it is not given to know them.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:66     Ye shall observe the laws which ye have received and be faithful.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:67     And ye shall hereafter receive church covenants, such as shall be sufficient to establish you, both here and in the New Jerusalem.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:68     Therefore, he that lacketh wisdom, let him ask of me, and I will give him liberally and upbraid him not.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:69     Lift up your hearts and rejoice, for unto you the kingdom, or in other words, the keys of the church have been given. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:70     The priests and teachers shall have their stewardships, even as the members.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:71     And the elders or high priests who are appointed to assist the bishop as counselors in all things, are to have their families supported out of the property which is consecrated to the bishop, for the good of the poor, and for other purposes, as before mentioned;
Doctrine and Covenants 42:72     Or they are to receive a just remuneration for all their services, either a stewardship or otherwise, as may be thought best or decided by the counselors and bishop.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:73     And the bishop, also, shall receive his support, or a just remuneration for all his services in the church.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:74     Behold, verily I say unto you, that whatever persons among you, having put away their companions for the cause of fornication, or in other words, if they shall testify before you in all lowliness of heart that this is the case, ye shall not cast them out from among you;
Doctrine and Covenants 42:75     But if ye shall find that any persons have left their companions for the sake of adultery, and they themselves are the offenders, and their companions are living, they shall be cast out from among you.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:76     And again, I say unto you, that ye shall be watchful and careful, with all inquiry, that ye receive none such among you if they are married;
Doctrine and Covenants 42:77     And if they are not married, they shall repent of all their sins or ye shall not receive them.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:78     And again, every person who belongeth to this church of Christ, shall observe to keep all the commandments and covenants of the church.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:79     And it shall come to pass, that if any persons among you shall kill they shall be delivered up and dealt with according to the laws of the land; for remember that he hath no forgiveness; and it shall be proved according to the laws of the land.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:80     And if any man or woman shall commit adultery, he or she shall be tried before two elders of the church, or more, and every word shall be established against him or her by two witnesses of the church, and not of the enemy; but if there are more than two witnesses it is better.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:81     But he or she shall be condemned by the mouth of two witnesses; and the elders shall lay the case before the church, and the church shall lift up their hands against him or her, that they may be dealt with according to the law of God.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:82     And if it can be, it is necessary that the bishop be present also.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:83     And thus ye shall do in all cases which shall come before you.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:84     And if a man or woman shall rob, he or she shall be delivered up unto the law of the land.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:85     And if he or she shall steal, he or she shall be delivered up unto the law of the land.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:86     And if he or she shall lie, he or she shall be delivered up unto the law of the land.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:87     And if he or she do any manner of iniquity, he or she shall be delivered up unto the law, even that of God.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:88     And if thy brother or sister offend thee, thou shalt take him or her between him or her and thee alone; and if he or she confess thou shalt be reconciled.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:89     And if he or she confess not thou shalt deliver him or her up unto the church, not to the members, but to the elders. And it shall be done in a meeting, and that not before the world.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:90     And if thy brother or sister offend many, he or she shall be chastened before many.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:91     And if any one offend openly, he or she shall be rebuked openly, that he or she may be ashamed. And if he or she confess not, he or she shall be delivered up unto the law of God.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:92     If any shall offend in secret, he or she shall be rebuked in secret, that he or she may have opportunity to confess in secret to him or her whom he or she has offended, and to God, that the church may not speak reproachfully of him or her.
Doctrine and Covenants 42:93     And thus shall ye conduct in all things.
Doctrine and Covenants 43:1     O hearken, ye elders of my church, and give ear to the words which I shall speak unto you.
Doctrine and Covenants 43:2     For behold, verily, verily, I say unto you, that ye have received a commandment for a law unto my church, through him whom I have appointed unto you to receive commandments and revelations from my hand.
Doctrine and Covenants 43:3     And this ye shall know assuredly--that there is none other appointed unto you to receive commandments and revelations until he be taken, if he abide in me.
Doctrine and Covenants 43:4     But verily, verily, I say unto you, that none else shall be appointed unto this gift except it be through him; for if it be taken from him he shall not have power except to appoint another in his stead.
Doctrine and Covenants 43:5     And this shall be a law unto you, that ye receive not the teachings of any that shall come before you as revelations or commandments;
Doctrine and Covenants 43:6     And this I give unto you that you may not be deceived, that you may know they are not of me.
Doctrine and Covenants 43:7     For verily I say unto you, that he that is ordained of me shall come in at the gate and be ordained as I have told you before, to teach those revelations which you have received and shall receive through him whom I have appointed.
Doctrine and Covenants 43:8     And now, behold, I give unto you a commandment, that when ye are assembled together ye shall instruct and edify each other, that ye may know how to act and direct my church, how to act upon the points of my law and commandments, which I have given.
Doctrine and Covenants 43:9     And thus ye shall become instructed in the law of my church, and be sanctified by that which ye have received, and ye shall bind yourselves to act in all holiness before me--
Doctrine and Covenants 43:10     That inasmuch as ye do this, glory shall be added to the kingdom which ye have received. Inasmuch as ye do it not, it shall be taken, even that which ye have received.
Doctrine and Covenants 43:11     Purge ye out the iniquity which is among you; sanctify yourselves before me;
Doctrine and Covenants 43:12     And if ye desire the glories of the kingdom, appoint ye my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., and uphold him before me by the prayer of faith.
Doctrine and Covenants 43:13     And again, I say unto you, that if ye desire the mysteries of the kingdom, provide for him food and raiment, and whatsoever thing he needeth to accomplish the work wherewith I have commanded him;
Doctrine and Covenants 43:14     And if ye do it not he shall remain unto them that have received him, that I may reserve unto myself a pure people before me.
Doctrine and Covenants 43:15     Again I say, hearken ye elders of my church, whom I have appointed: Ye are not sent forth to be taught, but to teach the children of men the things which I have put into your hands by the power of my Spirit;
Doctrine and Covenants 43:16     And ye are to be taught from on high. Sanctify yourselves and ye shall be endowed with power, that ye may give even as I have spoken.
Doctrine and Covenants 43:17     Hearken ye, for, behold, the great day of the Lord is nigh at hand.
Doctrine and Covenants 43:18     For the day cometh that the Lord shall utter his voice out of heaven; the heavens shall shake and the earth shall tremble, and the trump of God shall sound both long and loud, and shall say to the sleeping nations: Ye saints arise and live; ye sinners stay and sleep until I shall call again.
Doctrine and Covenants 43:19     Wherefore gird up your loins lest ye be found among the wicked.
Doctrine and Covenants 43:20     Lift up your voices and spare not. Call upon the nations to repent, both old and young, both bond and free, saying: Prepare yourselves for the great day of the Lord;
Doctrine and Covenants 43:21     For if I, who am a man, do lift up my voice and call upon you to repent, and ye hate me, what will ye say when the day cometh when the thunders shall utter their voices from the ends of the earth, speaking to the ears of all that live, saying--Repent, and prepare for the great day of the Lord?
Doctrine and Covenants 43:22     Yea, and again, when the lightnings shall streak forth from the east unto the west, and shall utter forth their voices unto all that live, and make the ears of all tingle that hear, saying these words--Repent ye, for the great day of the Lord is come?
Doctrine and Covenants 43:23     And again, the Lord shall utter his voice out of heaven, saying: Hearken, O ye nations of the earth, and hear the words of that God who made you.
Doctrine and Covenants 43:24     O, ye nations of the earth, how often would I have gathered you together as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, but ye would not!
Doctrine and Covenants 43:25     How oft have I called upon you by the mouth of my servants, and by the ministering of angels, and by mine own voice, and by the voice of thunderings, and by the voice of lightnings, and by the voice of tempests, and by the voice of earthquakes, and great hailstorms, and by the voice of famines and pestilences of every kind, and by the great sound of a trump, and by the voice of judgment, and by the voice of mercy all the day long, and by the voice of glory and honor and the riches of eternal life, and would have saved you with an everlasting salvation, but ye would not!
Doctrine and Covenants 43:26     Behold, the day has come, when the cup of the wrath of mine indignation is full.
Doctrine and Covenants 43:27     Behold, verily I say unto you, that these are the words of the Lord your God.
Doctrine and Covenants 43:28     Wherefore, labor ye, labor ye in my vineyard for the last time--for the last time call upon the inhabitants of the earth.
Doctrine and Covenants 43:29     For in mine own due time will I come upon the earth in judgment, and my people shall be redeemed and shall reign with me on earth.
Doctrine and Covenants 43:30     For the great Millennium, of which I have spoken by the mouth of my servants, shall come.
Doctrine and Covenants 43:31     For Satan shall be bound, and when he is loosed again he shall only reign for a little season, and then cometh the end of the earth.
Doctrine and Covenants 43:32     And he that liveth in righteousness shall be changed in the twinkling of an eye, and the earth shall pass away so as by fire.
Doctrine and Covenants 43:33     And the wicked shall go away into unquenchable fire, and their end no man knoweth on earth, nor ever shall know, until they come before me in judgment.
Doctrine and Covenants 43:34     Hearken ye to these words. Behold, I am Jesus Christ, the Savior of the world. Treasure these things up in your hearts, and let the solemnities of eternity rest upon your minds.
Doctrine and Covenants 43:35     Be sober. Keep all my commandments. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 44:1     Behold, thus saith the Lord unto you my servants, it is expedient in me that the elders of my church should be called together, from the east and from the west, and from the north and from the south, by letter or some other way.
Doctrine and Covenants 44:2     And it shall come to pass, that inasmuch as they are faithful, and exercise faith in me, I will pour out my Spirit upon them in the day that they assemble themselves together.
Doctrine and Covenants 44:3     And it shall come to pass that they shall go forth into the regions round about, and preach repentance unto the people.
Doctrine and Covenants 44:4     And many shall be converted, insomuch that ye shall obtain power to organize yourselves according to the laws of man;
Doctrine and Covenants 44:5     That your enemies may not have power over you; that you may be preserved in all things; that you may be enabled to keep my laws; that every bond may be broken wherewith the enemy seeketh to destroy my people.
Doctrine and Covenants 44:6     Behold, I say unto you, that ye must visit the poor and the needy and administer to their relief, that they may be kept until all things may be done according to my law which ye have received. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:1     Hearken, O ye people of my church, to whom the kingdom has been given; hearken ye and give ear to him who laid the foundation of the earth, who made the heavens and all the hosts thereof, and by whom all things were made which live, and move, and have a being.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:2     And again I say, hearken unto my voice, lest death shall overtake you; in an hour when ye think not the summer shall be past, and the harvest ended, and your souls not saved.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:3     Listen to him who is the advocate with the Father, who is pleading your cause before him--
Doctrine and Covenants 45:4     Saying: Father, behold the sufferings and death of him who did no sin, in whom thou wast well pleased; behold the blood of thy Son which was shed, the blood of him whom thou gavest that thyself might be glorified;
Doctrine and Covenants 45:5     Wherefore, Father, spare these my brethren that believe on my name, that they may come unto me and have everlasting life.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:6     Hearken, O ye people of my church, and ye elders listen together, and hear my voice while it is called today, and harden not your hearts;
Doctrine and Covenants 45:7     For verily I say unto you that I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, the light and the life of the world--a light that shineth in darkness and the darkness comprehendeth it not.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:8     I came unto mine own, and mine own received me not; but unto as many as received me gave I power to do many miracles, and to become the sons of God; and even unto them that believed on my name gave I power to obtain eternal life.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:9     And even so I have sent mine everlasting covenant into the world, to be a light to the world, and to be a standard for my people, and for the Gentiles to seek to it, and to be a messenger before my face to prepare the way before me.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:10     Wherefore, come ye unto it, and with him that cometh I will reason as with men in days of old, and I will show unto you my strong reasoning.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:11     Wherefore, hearken ye together and let me show unto you even my wisdom--the wisdom of him whom ye say is the God of Enoch, and his brethren,
Doctrine and Covenants 45:12     Who were separated from the earth, and were received unto myself--a city reserved until a day of righteousness shall come--a day which was sought for by all holy men, and they found it not because of wickedness and abominations;
Doctrine and Covenants 45:13     And confessed they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth;
Doctrine and Covenants 45:14     But obtained a promise that they should find it and see it in their flesh.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:15     Wherefore, hearken and I will reason with you, and I will speak unto you and prophesy, as unto men in days of old.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:16     And I will show it plainly as I showed it unto my disciples as I stood before them in the flesh, and spake unto them, saying: As ye have asked of me concerning the signs of my coming, in the day when I shall come in my glory in the clouds of heaven, to fulfil the promises that I have made unto your fathers,
Doctrine and Covenants 45:17     For as ye have looked upon the long absence of your spirits from your bodies to be a bondage, I will show unto you how the day of redemption shall come, and also the restoration of the scattered Israel.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:18     And now ye behold this temple which is in Jerusalem, which ye call the house of God, and your enemies say that this house shall never fall.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:19     But, verily I say unto you, that desolation shall come upon this generation as a thief in the night, and this people shall be destroyed and scattered among all nations.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:20     And this temple which ye now see shall be thrown down that there shall not be left one stone upon another.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:21     And it shall come to pass, that this generation of Jews shall not pass away until every desolation which I have told you concerning them shall come to pass.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:22     Ye say that ye know that the end of the world cometh; ye say also that ye know that the heavens and the earth shall pass away;
Doctrine and Covenants 45:23     And in this ye say truly, for so it is; but these things which I have told you shall not pass away until all shall be fulfilled.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:24     And this I have told you concerning Jerusalem; and when that day shall come, shall a remnant be scattered among all nations;
Doctrine and Covenants 45:25     But they shall be gathered again; but they shall remain until the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:26     And in that day shall be heard of wars and rumors of wars, and the whole earth shall be in commotion, and men's hearts shall fail them, and they shall say that Christ delayeth his coming until the end of the earth.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:27     And the love of men shall wax cold, and iniquity shall abound.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:28     And when the times of the Gentiles is come in, a light shall break forth among them that sit in darkness, and it shall be the fulness of my gospel;
Doctrine and Covenants 45:29     But they receive it not; for they perceive not the light, and they turn their hearts from me because of the precepts of men.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:30     And in that generation shall the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:31     And there shall be men standing in that generation, that shall not pass until they shall see an overflowing scourge; for a desolating sickness shall cover the land.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:32     But my disciples shall stand in holy places, and shall not be moved; but among the wicked, men shall lift up their voices and curse God and die.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:33     And there shall be earthquakes also in divers places, and many desolations; yet men will harden their hearts against me, and they will take up the sword, one against another, and they will kill one another.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:34     And now, when I the Lord had spoken these words unto my disciples, they were troubled.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:35     And I said unto them: Be not troubled, for, when all these things shall come to pass, ye may know that the promises which have been made unto you shall be fulfilled.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:36     And when the light shall begin to break forth, it shall be with them like unto a parable which I will show you--
Doctrine and Covenants 45:37     Ye look and behold the fig trees, and ye see them with your eyes, and ye say when they begin to shoot forth, and their leaves are yet tender, that summer is now nigh at hand;
Doctrine and Covenants 45:38     Even so it shall be in that day when they shall see all these things, then shall they know that the hour is nigh.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:39     And it shall come to pass that he that feareth me shall be looking forth for the great day of the Lord to come, even for the signs of the coming of the Son of Man.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:40     And they shall see signs and wonders, for they shall be shown forth in the heavens above, and in the earth beneath.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:41     And they shall behold blood, and fire, and vapors of smoke.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:42     And before the day of the Lord shall come, the sun shall be darkened, and the moon be turned into blood, and the stars fall from heaven.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:43     And the remnant shall be gathered unto this place;
Doctrine and Covenants 45:44     And then they shall look for me, and, behold, I will come; and they shall see me in the clouds of heaven, clothed with power and great glory; with all the holy angels; and he that watches not for me shall be cut off.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:45     But before the arm of the Lord shall fall, an angel shall sound his trump, and the saints that have slept shall come forth to meet me in the cloud.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:46     Wherefore, if ye have slept in peace blessed are you; for as you now behold me and know that I am, even so shall ye come unto me and your souls shall live, and your redemption shall be perfected; and the saints shall come forth from the four quarters of the earth.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:47     Then shall the arm of the Lord fall upon the nations.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:48     And then shall the Lord set his foot upon this mount, and it shall cleave in twain, and the earth shall tremble, and reel to and fro, and the heavens also shall shake.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:49     And the Lord shall utter his voice, and all the ends of the earth shall hear it; and the nations of the earth shall mourn, and they that have laughed shall see their folly.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:50     And calamity shall cover the mocker, and the scorner shall be consumed; and they that have watched for iniquity shall be hewn down and cast into the fire.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:51     And then shall the Jews look upon me and say: What are these wounds in thine hands and in thy feet?
Doctrine and Covenants 45:52     Then shall they know that I am the Lord; for I will say unto them: These wounds are the wounds with which I was wounded in the house of my friends. I am he who was lifted up. I am Jesus that was crucified. I am the Son of God.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:53     And then shall they weep because of their iniquities; then shall they lament because they persecuted their king.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:54     And then shall the heathen nations be redeemed, and they that knew no law shall have part in the first resurrection; and it shall be tolerable for them.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:55     And Satan shall be bound, that he shall have no place in the hearts of the children of men.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:56     And at that day, when I shall come in my glory, shall the parable be fulfilled which I spake concerning the ten virgins.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:57     For they that are wise and have received the truth, and have taken the Holy Spirit for their guide, and have not been deceived--verily I say unto you, they shall not be hewn down and cast into the fire, but shall abide the day.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:58     And the earth shall be given unto them for an inheritance; and they shall multiply and wax strong, and their children shall grow up without sin unto salvation.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:59     For the Lord shall be in their midst, and his glory shall be upon them, and he will be their king and their lawgiver.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:60     And now, behold, I say unto you, it shall not be given unto you to know any further concerning this chapter, until the New Testament be translated, and in it all these things shall be made known;
Doctrine and Covenants 45:61     Wherefore I give unto you that ye may now translate it, that ye may be prepared for the things to come.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:62     For verily I say unto you, that great things await you;
Doctrine and Covenants 45:63     Ye hear of wars in foreign lands; but, behold, I say unto you, they are nigh, even at your doors, and not many years hence ye shall hear of wars in your own lands.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:64     Wherefore I, the Lord, have said, gather ye out from the eastern lands, assemble ye yourselves together ye elders of my church; go ye forth into the western countries, call upon the inhabitants to repent, and inasmuch as they do repent, build up churches unto me.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:65     And with one heart and with one mind, gather up your riches that ye may purchase an inheritance which shall hereafter be appointed unto you.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:66     And it shall be called the New Jerusalem, a land of peace, a city of refuge, a place of safety for the saints of the Most High God;
Doctrine and Covenants 45:67     And the glory of the Lord shall be there, and the terror of the Lord also shall be there, insomuch that the wicked will not come unto it, and it shall be called Zion.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:68     And it shall come to pass among the wicked, that every man that will not take his sword against his neighbor must needs flee unto Zion for safety.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:69     And there shall be gathered unto it out of every nation under heaven; and it shall be the only people that shall not be at war one with another.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:70     And it shall be said among the wicked: Let us not go up to battle against Zion, for the inhabitants of Zion are terrible; wherefore we cannot stand.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:71     And it shall come to pass that the righteous shall be gathered out from among all nations, and shall come to Zion, singing with songs of everlasting joy.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:72     And now I say unto you, keep these things from going abroad unto the world until it is expedient in me, that ye may accomplish this work in the eyes of the people, and in the eyes of your enemies, that they may not know your works until ye have accomplished the thing which I have commanded you;
Doctrine and Covenants 45:73     That when they shall know it, that they may consider these things.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:74     For when the Lord shall appear he shall be terrible unto them, that fear may seize upon them, and they shall stand afar off and tremble.
Doctrine and Covenants 45:75     And all nations shall be afraid because of the terror of the Lord, and the power of his might. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 46:1     Hearken, O ye people of my church; for verily I say unto you that these things were spoken unto you for your profit and learning.
Doctrine and Covenants 46:2     But notwithstanding those things which are written, it always has been given to the elders of my church from the beginning, and ever shall be, to conduct all meetings as they are directed and guided by the Holy Spirit.
Doctrine and Covenants 46:3     Nevertheless ye are commanded never to cast any one out from your public meetings, which are held before the world.
Doctrine and Covenants 46:4     Ye are also commanded not to cast any one who belongeth to the church out of your sacrament meetings; nevertheless, if any have trespassed, let him not partake until he makes reconciliation.
Doctrine and Covenants 46:5     And again I say unto you, ye shall not cast any out of your sacrament meetings who are earnestly seeking the kingdom--I speak this concerning those who are not of the church.
Doctrine and Covenants 46:6     And again I say unto you, concerning your confirmation meetings, that if there be any that are not of the church, that are earnestly seeking after the kingdom, ye shall not cast them out.
Doctrine and Covenants 46:7     But ye are commanded in all things to ask of God, who giveth liberally; and that which the Spirit testifies unto you even so I would that ye should do in all holiness of heart, walking uprightly before me, considering the end of your salvation, doing all things with prayer and thanksgiving, that ye may not be seduced by evil spirits, or doctrines of devils, or the commandments of men; for some are of men, and others of devils.
Doctrine and Covenants 46:8     Wherefore, beware lest ye are deceived; and that ye may not be deceived seek ye earnestly the best gifts, always remembering for what they are given;
Doctrine and Covenants 46:9     For verily I say unto you, they are given for the benefit of those who love me and keep all my commandments, and him that seeketh so to do; that all may be benefited that seek or that ask of me, that ask and not for a sign that they may consume it upon their lusts.
Doctrine and Covenants 46:10     And again, verily I say unto you, I would that ye should always remember, and always retain in your minds what those gifts are, that are given unto the church.
Doctrine and Covenants 46:11     For all have not every gift given unto them; for there are many gifts, and to every man is given a gift by the Spirit of God.
Doctrine and Covenants 46:12     To some is given one, and to some is given another, that all may be profited thereby.
Doctrine and Covenants 46:13     To some it is given by the Holy Ghost to know that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, and that he was crucified for the sins of the world.
Doctrine and Covenants 46:14     To others it is given to believe on their words, that they also might have eternal life if they continue faithful.
Doctrine and Covenants 46:15     And again, to some it is given by the Holy Ghost to know the differences of administration, as it will be pleasing unto the same Lord, according as the Lord will, suiting his mercies according to the conditions of the children of men.
Doctrine and Covenants 46:16     And again, it is given by the Holy Ghost to some to know the diversities of operations, whether they be of God, that the manifestations of the Spirit may be given to every man to profit withal.
Doctrine and Covenants 46:17     And again, verily I say unto you, to some is given, by the Spirit of God, the word of wisdom.
Doctrine and Covenants 46:18     To another is given the word of knowledge, that all may be taught to be wise and to have knowledge.
Doctrine and Covenants 46:19     And again, to some it is given to have faith to be healed;
Doctrine and Covenants 46:20     And to others it is given to have faith to heal.
Doctrine and Covenants 46:21     And again, to some is given the working of miracles;
Doctrine and Covenants 46:22     And to others it is given to prophesy;
Doctrine and Covenants 46:23     And to others the discerning of spirits.
Doctrine and Covenants 46:24     And again, it is given to some to speak with tongues;
Doctrine and Covenants 46:25     And to another is given the interpretation of tongues.
Doctrine and Covenants 46:26     And all these gifts come from God, for the benefit of the children of God.
Doctrine and Covenants 46:27     And unto the bishop of the church, and unto such as God shall appoint and ordain to watch over the church and to be elders unto the church, are to have it given unto them to discern all those gifts lest there shall be any among you professing and yet be not of God.
Doctrine and Covenants 46:28     And it shall come to pass that he that asketh in Spirit shall receive in Spirit;
Doctrine and Covenants 46:29     That unto some it may be given to have all those gifts, that there may be a head, in order that every member may be profited thereby.
Doctrine and Covenants 46:30     He that asketh in the Spirit asketh according to the will of God; wherefore it is done even as he asketh.
Doctrine and Covenants 46:31     And again, I say unto you, all things must be done in the name of Christ, whatsoever you do in the Spirit;
Doctrine and Covenants 46:32     And ye must give thanks unto God in the Spirit for whatsoever blessing ye are blessed with.
Doctrine and Covenants 46:33     And ye must practice virtue and holiness before me continually. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 47:1     Behold, it is expedient in me that my servant John should write and keep a regular history, and assist you, my servant Joseph, in transcribing all things which shall be given you, until he is called to further duties.
Doctrine and Covenants 47:2     Again, verily I say unto you that he can also lift up his voice in meetings, whenever it shall be expedient.
Doctrine and Covenants 47:3     And again, I say unto you that it shall be appointed unto him to keep the church record and history continually; for Oliver Cowdery I have appointed to another office.
Doctrine and Covenants 47:4     Wherefore, it shall be given him, inasmuch as he is faithful, by the Comforter, to write these things. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 48:1     It is necessary that ye should remain for the present time in your places of abode, as it shall be suitable to your circumstances.
Doctrine and Covenants 48:2     And inasmuch as ye have lands, ye shall impart to the eastern brethren;
Doctrine and Covenants 48:3     And inasmuch as ye have not lands, let them buy for the present time in those regions round about, as seemeth them good, for it must needs be necessary that they have places to live for the present time.
Doctrine and Covenants 48:4     It must needs be necessary that ye save all the money that ye can, and that ye obtain all that ye can in righteousness, that in time ye may be enabled to purchase land for an inheritance, even the city.
Doctrine and Covenants 48:5     The place is not yet to be revealed; but after your brethren come from the east there are to be certain men appointed, and to them it shall be given to know the place, or to them it shall be revealed.
Doctrine and Covenants 48:6     And they shall be appointed to purchase the lands, and to make a commencement to lay the foundation of the city; and then shall ye begin to be gathered with your families, every man according to his family, according to his circumstances, and as is appointed to him by the presidency and the bishop of the church, according to the laws and commandments which ye have received, and which ye shall hereafter receive. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 49:1     Hearken unto my word, my servants Sidney, and Parley, and Leman; for behold, verily I say unto you, that I give unto you a commandment that you shall go and preach my gospel which ye have received, even as ye have received it, unto the Shakers.
Doctrine and Covenants 49:2     Behold, I say unto you, that they desire to know the truth in part, but not all, for they are not right before me and must needs repent.
Doctrine and Covenants 49:3     Wherefore, I send you, my servants Sidney and Parley, to preach the gospel unto them.
Doctrine and Covenants 49:4     And my servant Leman shall be ordained unto this work, that he may reason with them, not according to that which he has received of them, but according to that which shall be taught him by you my servants; and by so doing I will bless him, otherwise he shall not prosper.
Doctrine and Covenants 49:5     Thus saith the Lord; for I am God, and have sent mine Only Begotten Son into the world for the redemption of the world, and have decreed that he that receiveth him shall be saved, and he that receiveth him not shall be damned--
Doctrine and Covenants 49:6     And they have done unto the Son of Man even as they listed; and he has taken his power on the right hand of his glory, and now reigneth in the heavens, and will reign till he descends on the earth to put all enemies under his feet, which time is nigh at hand--
Doctrine and Covenants 49:7     I, the Lord God, have spoken it; but the hour and the day no man knoweth, neither the angels in heaven, nor shall they know until he comes.
Doctrine and Covenants 49:8     Wherefore, I will that all men shall repent, for all are under sin, except those which I have reserved unto myself, holy men that ye know not of.
Doctrine and Covenants 49:9     Wherefore, I say unto you that I have sent unto you mine everlasting covenant, even that which was from the beginning.
Doctrine and Covenants 49:10     And that which I have promised I have so fulfilled, and the nations of the earth shall bow to it; and, if not of themselves, they shall come down, for that which is now exalted of itself shall be laid low of power.
Doctrine and Covenants 49:11     Wherefore, I give unto you a commandment that ye go among this people, and say unto them, like unto mine apostle of old, whose name was Peter:
Doctrine and Covenants 49:12     Believe on the name of the Lord Jesus, who was on the earth, and is to come, the beginning and the end;
Doctrine and Covenants 49:13     Repent and be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ, according to the holy commandment, for the remission of sins;
Doctrine and Covenants 49:14     And whoso doeth this shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, by the laying on of the hands of the elders of the church.
Doctrine and Covenants 49:15     And again, verily I say unto you, that whoso forbiddeth to marry is not ordained of God, for marriage is ordained of God unto man.
Doctrine and Covenants 49:16     Wherefore, it is lawful that he should have one wife, and they twain shall be one flesh, and all this that the earth might answer the end of its creation;
Doctrine and Covenants 49:17     And that it might be filled with the measure of man, according to his creation before the world was made.
Doctrine and Covenants 49:18     And whoso forbiddeth to abstain from meats, that man should not eat the same, is not ordained of God;
Doctrine and Covenants 49:19     For, behold, the beasts of the field and the fowls of the air, and that which cometh of the earth, is ordained for the use of man for food and for raiment, and that he might have in abundance.
Doctrine and Covenants 49:20     But it is not given that one man should possess that which is above another, wherefore the world lieth in sin.
Doctrine and Covenants 49:21     And wo be unto man that sheddeth blood or that wasteth flesh and hath no need.
Doctrine and Covenants 49:22     And again, verily I say unto you, that the Son of Man cometh not in the form of a woman, neither of a man traveling on the earth.
Doctrine and Covenants 49:23     Wherefore, be not deceived, but continue in steadfastness, looking forth for the heavens to be shaken, and the earth to tremble and to reel to and fro as a drunken man, and for the valleys to be exalted, and for the mountains to be made low, and for the rough places to become smooth--and all this when the angel shall sound his trumpet.
Doctrine and Covenants 49:24     But before the great day of the Lord shall come, Jacob shall flourish in the wilderness, and the Lamanites shall blossom as the rose.
Doctrine and Covenants 49:25     Zion shall flourish upon the hills and rejoice upon the mountains, and shall be assembled together unto the place which I have appointed.
Doctrine and Covenants 49:26     Behold, I say unto you, go forth as I have commanded you; repent of all your sins; ask and ye shall receive; knock and it shall be opened unto you.
Doctrine and Covenants 49:27     Behold, I will go before you and be your rearward; and I will be in your midst, and you shall not be confounded.
Doctrine and Covenants 49:28     Behold, I am Jesus Christ, and I come quickly. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 50:1     Hearken, O ye elders of my church, and give ear to the voice of the living God; and attend to the words of wisdom which shall be given unto you, according as ye have asked and are agreed as touching the church, and the spirits which have gone abroad in the earth.
Doctrine and Covenants 50:2     Behold, verily I say unto you, that there are many spirits which are false spirits, which have gone forth in the earth, deceiving the world.
Doctrine and Covenants 50:3     And also Satan hath sought to deceive you, that he might overthrow you.
Doctrine and Covenants 50:4     Behold, I, the Lord, have looked upon you, and have seen abominations in the church that profess my name.
Doctrine and Covenants 50:5     But blessed are they who are faithful and endure, whether in life or in death, for they shall inherit eternal life.
Doctrine and Covenants 50:6     But wo unto them that are deceivers and hypocrites, for, thus saith the Lord, I will bring them to judgment.
Doctrine and Covenants 50:7     Behold, verily I say unto you, there are hypocrites among you, who have deceived some, which has given the adversary power; but behold such shall be reclaimed;
Doctrine and Covenants 50:8     But the hypocrites shall be detected and shall be cut off, either in life or in death, even as I will; and wo unto them who are cut off from my church, for the same are overcome of the world.
Doctrine and Covenants 50:9     Wherefore, let every man beware lest he do that which is not in truth and righteousness before me.
Doctrine and Covenants 50:10     And now come, saith the Lord, by the Spirit, unto the elders of his church, and let us reason together, that ye may understand;
Doctrine and Covenants 50:11     Let us reason even as a man reasoneth one with another face to face.
Doctrine and Covenants 50:12     Now, when a man reasoneth he is understood of man, because he reasoneth as a man; even so will I, the Lord, reason with you that you may understand.
Doctrine and Covenants 50:13     Wherefore, I the Lord ask you this question--unto what were ye ordained?
Doctrine and Covenants 50:14     To preach my gospel by the Spirit, even the Comforter which was sent forth to teach the truth.
Doctrine and Covenants 50:15     And then received ye spirits which ye could not understand, and received them to be of God; and in this are ye justified?
Doctrine and Covenants 50:16     Behold ye shall answer this question yourselves; nevertheless, I will be merciful unto you; he that is weak among you hereafter shall be made strong.
Doctrine and Covenants 50:17     Verily I say unto you, he that is ordained of me and sent forth to preach the word of truth by the Comforter, in the Spirit of truth, doth he preach it by the Spirit of truth or some other way?
Doctrine and Covenants 50:18     And if it be by some other way it is not of God.
Doctrine and Covenants 50:19     And again, he that receiveth the word of truth, doth he receive it by the Spirit of truth or some other way?
Doctrine and Covenants 50:20     If it be some other way it is not of God.
Doctrine and Covenants 50:21     Therefore, why is it that ye cannot understand and know, that he that receiveth the word by the Spirit of truth receiveth it as it is preached by the Spirit of truth?
Doctrine and Covenants 50:22     Wherefore, he that preacheth and he that receiveth, understand one another, and both are edified and rejoice together.
Doctrine and Covenants 50:23     And that which doth not edify is not of God, and is darkness.
Doctrine and Covenants 50:24     That which is of God is light; and he that receiveth light, and continueth in God, receiveth more light; and that light groweth brighter and brighter until the perfect day.
Doctrine and Covenants 50:25     And again, verily I say unto you, and I say it that you may know the truth, that you may chase darkness from among you;
Doctrine and Covenants 50:26     He that is ordained of God and sent forth, the same is appointed to be the greatest, notwithstanding he is the least and the servant of all.
Doctrine and Covenants 50:27     Wherefore, he is possessor of all things; for all things are subject unto him, both in heaven and on the earth, the life and the light, the Spirit and the power, sent forth by the will of the Father through Jesus Christ, his Son.
Doctrine and Covenants 50:28     But no man is possessor of all things except he be purified and cleansed from all sin.
Doctrine and Covenants 50:29     And if ye are purified and cleansed from all sin, ye shall ask whatsoever you will in the name of Jesus and it shall be done.
Doctrine and Covenants 50:30     But know this, it shall be given you what you shall ask; and as ye are appointed to the head, the spirits shall be subject unto you.
Doctrine and Covenants 50:31     Wherefore, it shall come to pass, that if you behold a spirit manifested that you cannot understand, and you receive not that spirit, ye shall ask of the Father in the name of Jesus; and if he give not unto you that spirit, then you may know that it is not of God.
Doctrine and Covenants 50:32     And it shall be given unto you, power over that spirit; and you shall proclaim against that spirit with a loud voice that it is not of God--
Doctrine and Covenants 50:33     Not with railing accusation, that ye be not overcome, neither with boasting nor rejoicing, lest you be seized therewith.
Doctrine and Covenants 50:34     He that receiveth of God, let him account it of God; and let him rejoice that he is accounted of God worthy to receive.
Doctrine and Covenants 50:35     And by giving heed and doing these things which ye have received, and which ye shall hereafter receive--and the kingdom is given you of the Father, and power to overcome all things which are not ordained of him--
Doctrine and Covenants 50:36     And behold, verily I say unto you, blessed are you who are now hearing these words of mine from the mouth of my servant, for your sins are forgiven you.
Doctrine and Covenants 50:37     Let my servant Joseph Wakefield, in whom I am well pleased, and my servant Parley P. Pratt go forth among the churches and strengthen them by the word of exhortation;
Doctrine and Covenants 50:38     And also my servant John Corrill, or as many of my servants as are ordained unto this office, and let them labor in the vineyard; and let no man hinder them doing that which I have appointed unto them--
Doctrine and Covenants 50:39     Wherefore, in this thing my servant Edward Partridge is not justified; nevertheless let him repent and he shall be forgiven.
Doctrine and Covenants 50:40     Behold, ye are little children and ye cannot bear all things now; ye must grow in grace and in the knowledge of the truth.
Doctrine and Covenants 50:41     Fear not, little children, for you are mine, and I have overcome the world, and you are of them that my Father hath given me;
Doctrine and Covenants 50:42     And none of them that my Father hath given me shall be lost.
Doctrine and Covenants 50:43     And the Father and I are one. I am in the Father and the Father in me; and inasmuch as ye have received me, ye are in me and I in you.
Doctrine and Covenants 50:44     Wherefore, I am in your midst, and I am the good shepherd, and the stone of Israel. He that buildeth upon this rock shall never fall.
Doctrine and Covenants 50:45     And the day cometh that you shall hear my voice and see me, and know that I am.
Doctrine and Covenants 50:46     Watch, therefore, that ye may be ready. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 51:1     Hearken unto me, saith the Lord your God, and I will speak unto my servant Edward Partridge, and give unto him directions; for it must needs be that he receive directions how to organize this people.
Doctrine and Covenants 51:2     For it must needs be that they be organized according to my laws; if otherwise, they will be cut off.
Doctrine and Covenants 51:3     Wherefore, let my servant Edward Partridge, and those whom he has chosen, in whom I am well pleased, appoint unto this people their portions, every man equal according to his family, according to his circumstances and his wants and needs.
Doctrine and Covenants 51:4     And let my servant Edward Partridge, when he shall appoint a man his portion, give unto him a writing that shall secure unto him his portion, that he shall hold it, even this right and this inheritance in the church, until he transgresses and is not accounted worthy by the voice of the church, according to the laws and covenants of the church, to belong to the church.
Doctrine and Covenants 51:5     And if he shall transgress and is not accounted worthy to belong to the church, he shall not have power to claim that portion which he has consecrated unto the bishop for the poor and needy of my church; therefore, he shall not retain the gift, but shall only have claim on that portion that is deeded unto him.
Doctrine and Covenants 51:6     And thus all things shall be made sure, according to the laws of the land.
Doctrine and Covenants 51:7     And let that which belongs to this people be appointed unto this people.
Doctrine and Covenants 51:8     And the money which is left unto this people--let there be an agent appointed unto this people, to take the money to provide food and raiment, according to the wants of this people.
Doctrine and Covenants 51:9     And let every man deal honestly, and be alike among this people, and receive alike, that ye may be one, even as I have commanded you.
Doctrine and Covenants 51:10     And let that which belongeth to this people not be taken and given unto that of another church.
Doctrine and Covenants 51:11     Wherefore, if another church would receive money of this church, let them pay unto this church again according as they shall agree;
Doctrine and Covenants 51:12     And this shall be done through the bishop or the agent, which shall be appointed by the voice of the church.
Doctrine and Covenants 51:13     And again, let the bishop appoint a storehouse unto this church; and let all things both in money and in meat, which are more than is needful for the wants of this people, be kept in the hands of the bishop.
Doctrine and Covenants 51:14     And let him also reserve unto himself for his own wants, and for the wants of his family, as he shall be employed in doing this business.
Doctrine and Covenants 51:15     And thus I grant unto this people a privilege of organizing themselves according to my laws.
Doctrine and Covenants 51:16     And I consecrate unto them this land for a little season, until I, the Lord, shall provide for them otherwise, and command them to go hence;
Doctrine and Covenants 51:17     And the hour and the day is not given unto them, wherefore let them act upon this land as for years, and this shall turn unto them for their good.
Doctrine and Covenants 51:18     Behold, this shall be an example unto my servant Edward Partridge, in other places, in all churches.
Doctrine and Covenants 51:19     And whoso is found a faithful, a just, and a wise steward shall enter into the joy of his Lord, and shall inherit eternal life.
Doctrine and Covenants 51:20     Verily, I say unto you, I am Jesus Christ, who cometh quickly, in an hour you think not. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 52:1     Behold, thus saith the Lord unto the elders whom he hath called and chosen in these last days, by the voice of his Spirit--
Doctrine and Covenants 52:2     Saying: I, the Lord, will make known unto you what I will that ye shall do from this time until the next conference, which shall be held in Missouri, upon the land which I will consecrate unto my people, which are a remnant of Jacob, and those who are heirs according to the covenant.
Doctrine and Covenants 52:3     Wherefore, verily I say unto you, let my servants Joseph Smith, Jun., and Sidney Rigdon take their journey as soon as preparations can be made to leave their homes, and journey to the land of Missouri.
Doctrine and Covenants 52:4     And inasmuch as they are faithful unto me, it shall be made known unto them what they shall do;
Doctrine and Covenants 52:5     And it shall also, inasmuch as they are faithful, be made known unto them the land of your inheritance.
Doctrine and Covenants 52:6     And inasmuch as they are not faithful, they shall be cut off, even as I will, as seemeth me good.
Doctrine and Covenants 52:7     And again, verily I say unto you, let my servant Lyman Wight and my servant John Corrill take their journey speedily;
Doctrine and Covenants 52:8     And also my servant John Murdock, and my servant Hyrum Smith, take their journey unto the same place by the way of Detroit.
Doctrine and Covenants 52:9     And let them journey from thence preaching the word by the way, saying none other things than that which the prophets and apostles have written, and that which is taught them by the Comforter through the prayer of faith.
Doctrine and Covenants 52:10     Let them go two by two, and thus let them preach by the way in every congregation, baptizing by water, and the laying on of the hands by the water's side.
Doctrine and Covenants 52:11     For thus saith the Lord, I will cut my work short in righteousness, for the days come that I will send forth judgment unto victory.
Doctrine and Covenants 52:12     And let my servant Lyman Wight beware, for Satan desireth to sift him as chaff.
Doctrine and Covenants 52:13     And behold, he that is faithful shall be made ruler over many things.
Doctrine and Covenants 52:14     And again, I will give unto you a pattern in all things, that ye may not be deceived; for Satan is abroad in the land, and he goeth forth deceiving the nations--
Doctrine and Covenants 52:15     Wherefore he that prayeth, whose spirit is contrite, the same is accepted of me if he obey mine ordinances.
Doctrine and Covenants 52:16     He that speaketh, whose spirit is contrite, whose language is meek and edifieth, the same is of God if he obey mine ordinances.
Doctrine and Covenants 52:17     And again, he that trembleth under my power shall be made strong, and shall bring forth fruits of praise and wisdom, according to the revelations and truths which I have given you.
Doctrine and Covenants 52:18     And again, he that is overcome and bringeth not forth fruits, even according to this pattern, is not of me.
Doctrine and Covenants 52:19     Wherefore, by this pattern ye shall know the spirits in all cases under the whole heavens.
Doctrine and Covenants 52:20     And the days have come; according to men's faith it shall be done unto them.
Doctrine and Covenants 52:21     Behold, this commandment is given unto all the elders whom I have chosen.
Doctrine and Covenants 52:22     And again, verily I say unto you, let my servant Thomas B. Marsh and my servant Ezra Thayre take their journey also, preaching the word by the way unto this same land.
Doctrine and Covenants 52:23     And again, let my servant Isaac Morley and my servant Ezra Booth take their journey, also preaching the word by the way unto this same land.
Doctrine and Covenants 52:24     And again, let my servants Edward Partridge and Martin Harris take their journey with my servants Sidney Rigdon and Joseph Smith, Jun.
Doctrine and Covenants 52:25     Let my servants David Whitmer and Harvey Whitlock also take their journey, and preach by the way unto this same land.
Doctrine and Covenants 52:26     And let my servants Parley P. Pratt and Orson Pratt take their journey, and preach by the way, even unto this same land.
Doctrine and Covenants 52:27     And let my servants Solomon Hancock and Simeon Carter also take their journey unto this same land, and preach by the way.
Doctrine and Covenants 52:28     Let my servants Edson Fuller and Jacob Scott also take their journey.
Doctrine and Covenants 52:29     Let my servants Levi W. Hancock and Zebedee Coltrin also take their journey.
Doctrine and Covenants 52:30     Let my servants Reynolds Cahoon and Samuel H. Smith also take their journey.
Doctrine and Covenants 52:31     Let my servants Wheeler Baldwin and William Carter also take their journey.
Doctrine and Covenants 52:32     And let my servants Newel Knight and Selah J. Griffin both be ordained, and also take their journey.
Doctrine and Covenants 52:33     Yea, verily I say, let all these take their journey unto one place, in their several courses, and one man shall not build upon another's foundation, neither journey in another's track.
Doctrine and Covenants 52:34     He that is faithful, the same shall be kept and blessed with much fruit.
Doctrine and Covenants 52:35     And again, I say unto you, let my servants Joseph Wakefield and Solomon Humphrey take their journey into the eastern lands;
Doctrine and Covenants 52:36     Let them labor with their families, declaring none other things than the prophets and apostles, that which they have seen and heard and most assuredly believe, that the prophecies may be fulfilled.
Doctrine and Covenants 52:37     In consequence of transgression, let that which was bestowed upon Heman Basset be taken from him, and placed upon the head of Simonds Ryder.
Doctrine and Covenants 52:38     And again, verily I say unto you, let Jared Carter be ordained a priest, and also George James be ordained a priest.
Doctrine and Covenants 52:39     Let the residue of the elders watch over the churches, and declare the word in the regions round about them; and let them labor with their own hands that there be no idolatry nor wickedness practiced.
Doctrine and Covenants 52:40     And remember in all things the poor and the needy, the sick and the afflicted, for he that doeth not these things, the same is not my disciple.
Doctrine and Covenants 52:41     And again, let my servants Joseph Smith, Jun., and Sidney Rigdon and Edward Partridge take with them a recommend from the church. And let there be one obtained for my servant Oliver Cowdery also.
Doctrine and Covenants 52:42     And thus, even as I have said, if ye are faithful ye shall assemble yourselves together to rejoice upon the land of Missouri, which is the land of your inheritance, which is now the land of your enemies.
Doctrine and Covenants 52:43     But, behold, I, the Lord, will hasten the city in its time, and will crown the faithful with joy and with rejoicing.
Doctrine and Covenants 52:44     Behold, I am Jesus Christ, the Son of God, and I will lift them up at the last day. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 53:1     Behold, I say unto you, my servant Sidney Gilbert, that I have heard your prayers; and you have called upon me that it should be made known unto you, of the Lord your God, concerning your calling and election in the church, which I, the Lord, have raised up in these last days.
Doctrine and Covenants 53:2     Behold, I, the Lord, who was crucified for the sins of the world, give unto you a commandment that you shall forsake the world.
Doctrine and Covenants 53:3     Take upon you mine ordination, even that of an elder, to preach faith and repentance and remission of sins, according to my word, and the reception of the Holy Spirit by the laying on of hands;
Doctrine and Covenants 53:4     And also to be an agent unto this church in the place which shall be appointed by the bishop, according to commandments which shall be given hereafter.
Doctrine and Covenants 53:5     And again, verily I say unto you, you shall take your journey with my servants Joseph Smith, Jun., and Sidney Rigdon.
Doctrine and Covenants 53:6     Behold, these are the first ordinances which you shall receive; and the residue shall be made known in a time to come, according to your labor in my vineyard.
Doctrine and Covenants 53:7     And again, I would that ye should learn that he only is saved who endureth unto the end. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 54:1     Behold, thus saith the Lord, even Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, even he who was crucified for the sins of the world--
Doctrine and Covenants 54:2     Behold, verily, verily, I say unto you, my servant Newel Knight, you shall stand fast in the office whereunto I have appointed you.
Doctrine and Covenants 54:3     And if your brethren desire to escape their enemies, let them repent of all their sins, and become truly humble before me and contrite.
Doctrine and Covenants 54:4     And as the covenant which they made unto me has been broken, even so it has become void and of none effect.
Doctrine and Covenants 54:5     And wo to him by whom this offense cometh, for it had been better for him that he had been drowned in the depth of the sea.
Doctrine and Covenants 54:6     But blessed are they who have kept the covenant and observed the commandment, for they shall obtain mercy.
Doctrine and Covenants 54:7     Wherefore, go to now and flee the land, lest your enemies come upon you; and take your journey, and appoint whom you will to be your leader, and to pay moneys for you.
Doctrine and Covenants 54:8     And thus you shall take your journey into the regions westward, unto the land of Missouri, unto the borders of the Lamanites.
Doctrine and Covenants 54:9     And after you have done journeying, behold, I say unto you, seek ye a living like unto men, until I prepare a place for you.
Doctrine and Covenants 54:10     And again, be patient in tribulation until I come; and, behold, I come quickly, and my reward is with me, and they who have sought me early shall find rest to their souls. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 55:1     Behold, thus saith the Lord unto you, my servant William, yea, even the Lord of the whole earth, thou art called and chosen; and after thou hast been baptized by water, which if you do with an eye single to my glory, you shall have a remission of your sins and a reception of the Holy Spirit by the laying on of hands;
Doctrine and Covenants 55:2     And then thou shalt be ordained by the hand of my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., to be an elder unto this church, to preach repentance and remission of sins by way of baptism in the name of Jesus Christ, the Son of the living God.
Doctrine and Covenants 55:3     And on whomsoever you shall lay your hands, if they are contrite before me, you shall have power to give the Holy Spirit.
Doctrine and Covenants 55:4     And again, you shall be ordained to assist my servant Oliver Cowdery to do the work of printing, and of selecting and writing books for schools in this church, that little children also may receive instruction before me as is pleasing unto me.
Doctrine and Covenants 55:5     And again, verily I say unto you, for this cause you shall take your journey with my servants Joseph Smith, Jun., and Sidney Rigdon, that you may be planted in the land of your inheritance to do this work.
Doctrine and Covenants 55:6     And again, let my servant Joseph Coe also take his journey with them. The residue shall be made known hereafter, even as I will. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 56:1     Hearken, O ye people who profess my name, saith the Lord your God; for behold, mine anger is kindled against the rebellious, and they shall know mine arm and mine indignation, in the day of visitation and of wrath upon the nations.
Doctrine and Covenants 56:2     And he that will not take up his cross and follow me, and keep my commandments, the same shall not be saved.
Doctrine and Covenants 56:3     Behold, I, the Lord, command; and he that will not obey shall be cut off in mine own due time, after I have commanded and the commandment is broken.
Doctrine and Covenants 56:4     Wherefore I, the Lord, command and revoke, as it seemeth me good; and all this to be answered upon the heads of the rebellious, saith the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 56:5     Wherefore, I revoke the commandment which was given unto my servants Thomas B. Marsh and Ezra Thayre, and give a new commandment unto my servant Thomas, that he shall take up his journey speedily to the land of Missouri, and my servant Selah J. Griffin shall also go with him.
Doctrine and Covenants 56:6     For behold, I revoke the commandment which was given unto my servants Selah J. Griffin and Newel Knight, in consequence of the stiffneckedness of my people which are in Thompson, and their rebellions.
Doctrine and Covenants 56:7     Wherefore, let my servant Newel Knight remain with them; and as many as will go may go, that are contrite before me, and be led by him to the land which I have appointed.
Doctrine and Covenants 56:8     And again, verily I say unto you, that my servant Ezra Thayre must repent of his pride, and of his selfishness, and obey the former commandment which I have given him concerning the place upon which he lives.
Doctrine and Covenants 56:9     And if he will do this, as there shall be no divisions made upon the land, he shall be appointed still to go to the land of Missouri;
Doctrine and Covenants 56:10     Otherwise he shall receive the money which he has paid, and shall leave the place, and shall be cut off out of my church, saith the Lord God of hosts;
Doctrine and Covenants 56:11     And though the heaven and the earth pass away, these words shall not pass away, but shall be fulfilled.
Doctrine and Covenants 56:12     And if my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., must needs pay the money, behold, I, the Lord, will pay it unto him again in the land of Missouri, that those of whom he shall receive may be rewarded again according to that which they do;
Doctrine and Covenants 56:13     For according to that which they do they shall receive, even in lands for their inheritance.
Doctrine and Covenants 56:14     Behold, thus saith the Lord unto my people--you have many things to do and to repent of; for behold, your sins have come up unto me, and are not pardoned, because you seek to counsel in your own ways.
Doctrine and Covenants 56:15     And your hearts are not satisfied. And ye obey not the truth, but have pleasure in unrighteousness.
Doctrine and Covenants 56:16     Wo unto you rich men, that will not give your substance to the poor, for your riches will canker your souls; and this shall be your lamentation in the day of visitation, and of judgment, and of indignation: The harvest is past, the summer is ended, and my soul is not saved!
Doctrine and Covenants 56:17     Wo unto you poor men, whose hearts are not broken, whose spirits are not contrite, and whose bellies are not satisfied, and whose hands are not stayed from laying hold upon other men's goods, whose eyes are full of greediness, and who will not labor with your own hands!
Doctrine and Covenants 56:18     But blessed are the poor who are pure in heart, whose hearts are broken, and whose spirits are contrite, for they shall see the kingdom of God coming in power and great glory unto their deliverance; for the fatness of the earth shall be theirs.
Doctrine and Covenants 56:19     For behold, the Lord shall come, and his recompense shall be with him, and he shall reward every man, and the poor shall rejoice;
Doctrine and Covenants 56:20     And their generations shall inherit the earth from generation to generation, forever and ever. And now I make an end of speaking unto you. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 57:1     Hearken, O ye elders of my church, saith the Lord your God, who have assembled yourselves together, according to my commandments, in this land, which is the land of Missouri, which is the land which I have appointed and consecrated for the gathering of the saints.
Doctrine and Covenants 57:2     Wherefore, this is the land of promise, and the place for the city of Zion.
Doctrine and Covenants 57:3     And thus saith the Lord your God, if you will receive wisdom here is wisdom. Behold, the place which is now called Independence is the center place; and a spot for the temple is lying westward, upon a lot which is not far from the courthouse.
Doctrine and Covenants 57:4     Wherefore, it is wisdom that the land should be purchased by the saints, and also every tract lying westward, even unto the line running directly between Jew and Gentile;
Doctrine and Covenants 57:5     And also every tract bordering by the prairies, inasmuch as my disciples are enabled to buy lands. Behold, this is wisdom, that they may obtain it for an everlasting inheritance.
Doctrine and Covenants 57:6     And let my servant Sidney Gilbert stand in the office to which I have appointed him, to receive moneys, to be an agent unto the church, to buy land in all the regions round about, inasmuch as can be done in righteousness, and as wisdom shall direct.
Doctrine and Covenants 57:7     And let my servant Edward Partridge stand in the office to which I have appointed him, and divide unto the saints their inheritance, even as I have commanded; and also those whom he has appointed to assist him.
Doctrine and Covenants 57:8     And again, verily I say unto you, let my servant Sidney Gilbert plant himself in this place, and establish a store, that he may sell goods without fraud, that he may obtain money to buy lands for the good of the saints, and that he may obtain whatsoever things the disciples may need to plant them in their inheritance.
Doctrine and Covenants 57:9     And also let my servant Sidney Gilbert obtain a license--behold here is wisdom, and whoso readeth let him understand--that he may send goods also unto the people, even by whom he will as clerks employed in his service;
Doctrine and Covenants 57:10     And thus provide for my saints, that my gospel may be preached unto those who sit in darkness and in the region and shadow of death.
Doctrine and Covenants 57:11     And again, verily I say unto you, let my servant William W. Phelps be planted in this place, and be established as a printer unto the church.
Doctrine and Covenants 57:12     And lo, if the world receive his writings--behold here is wisdom--let him obtain whatsoever he can obtain in righteousness, for the good of the saints.
Doctrine and Covenants 57:13     And let my servant Oliver Cowdery assist him, even as I have commanded, in whatsoever place I shall appoint unto him, to copy, and to correct, and select, that all things may be right before me, as it shall be proved by the Spirit through him.
Doctrine and Covenants 57:14     And thus let those of whom I have spoken be planted in the land of Zion, as speedily as can be, with their families, to do those things even as I have spoken.
Doctrine and Covenants 57:15     And now concerning the gathering--Let the bishop and the agent make preparations for those families which have been commanded to come to this land, as soon as possible, and plant them in their inheritance.
Doctrine and Covenants 57:16     And unto the residue of both elders and members further directions shall be given hereafter. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:1     Hearken, O ye elders of my church, and give ear to my word, and learn of me what I will concerning you, and also concerning this land unto which I have sent you.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:2     For verily I say unto you, blessed is he that keepeth my commandments, whether in life or in death; and he that is faithful in tribulation, the reward of the same is greater in the kingdom of heaven.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:3     Ye cannot behold with your natural eyes, for the present time, the design of your God concerning those things which shall come hereafter, and the glory which shall follow after much tribulation.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:4     For after much tribulation come the blessings. Wherefore the day cometh that ye shall be crowned with much glory; the hour is not yet, but is nigh at hand.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:5     Remember this, which I tell you before, that you may lay it to heart, and receive that which is to follow.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:6     Behold, verily I say unto you, for this cause I have sent you--that you might be obedient, and that your hearts might be prepared to bear testimony of the things which are to come;
Doctrine and Covenants 58:7     And also that you might be honored in laying the foundation, and in bearing record of the land upon which the Zion of God shall stand;
Doctrine and Covenants 58:8     And also that a feast of fat things might be prepared for the poor; yea, a feast of fat things, of wine on the lees well refined, that the earth may know that the mouths of the prophets shall not fail;
Doctrine and Covenants 58:9     Yea, a supper of the house of the Lord, well prepared, unto which all nations shall be invited.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:10     First, the rich and the learned, the wise and the noble;
Doctrine and Covenants 58:11     And after that cometh the day of my power; then shall the poor, the lame, and the blind, and the deaf, come in unto the marriage of the Lamb, and partake of the supper of the Lord, prepared for the great day to come.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:12     Behold, I, the Lord, have spoken it.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:13     And that the testimony might go forth from Zion, yea, from the mouth of the city of the heritage of God--
Doctrine and Covenants 58:14     Yea, for this cause I have sent you hither, and have selected my servant Edward Partridge, and have appointed unto him his mission in this land.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:15     But if he repent not of his sins, which are unbelief and blindness of heart, let him take heed lest he fall.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:16     Behold his mission is given unto him, and it shall not be given again.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:17     And whoso standeth in this mission is appointed to be a judge in Israel, like as it was in ancient days, to divide the lands of the heritage of God unto his children;
Doctrine and Covenants 58:18     And to judge his people by the testimony of the just, and by the assistance of his counselors, according to the laws of the kingdom which are given by the prophets of God.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:19     For verily I say unto you, my law shall be kept on this land.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:20     Let no man think he is ruler; but let God rule him that judgeth, according to the counsel of his own will, or, in other words, him that counseleth or sitteth upon the judgment seat.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:21     Let no man break the laws of the land, for he that keepeth the laws of God hath no need to break the laws of the land.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:22     Wherefore, be subject to the powers that be, until he reigns whose right it is to reign, and subdues all enemies under his feet.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:23     Behold, the laws which ye have received from my hand are the laws of the church, and in this light ye shall hold them forth. Behold, here is wisdom.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:24     And now, as I spake concerning my servant Edward Partridge, this land is the land of his residence, and those whom he has appointed for his counselors; and also the land of the residence of him whom I have appointed to keep my storehouse;
Doctrine and Covenants 58:25     Wherefore, let them bring their families to this land, as they shall counsel between themselves and me.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:26     For behold, it is not meet that I should command in all things; for he that is compelled in all things, the same is a slothful and not a wise servant; wherefore he receiveth no reward.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:27     Verily I say, men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness;
Doctrine and Covenants 58:28     For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And inasmuch as men do good they shall in nowise lose their reward.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:29     But he that doeth not anything until he is commanded, and receiveth a commandment with doubtful heart, and keepeth it with slothfulness, the same is damned.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:30     Who am I that made man, saith the Lord, that will hold him guiltless that obeys not my commandments?
Doctrine and Covenants 58:31     Who am I, saith the Lord, that have promised and have not fulfilled?
Doctrine and Covenants 58:32     I command and men obey not; I revoke and they receive not the blessing.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:33     Then they say in their hearts: This is not the work of the Lord, for his promises are not fulfilled. But wo unto such, for their reward lurketh beneath, and not from above.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:34     And now I give unto you further directions concerning this land.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:35     It is wisdom in me that my servant Martin Harris should be an example unto the church, in laying his moneys before the bishop of the church.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:36     And also, this is a law unto every man that cometh unto this land to receive an inheritance; and he shall do with his moneys according as the law directs.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:37     And it is wisdom also that there should be lands purchased in Independence, for the place of the storehouse, and also for the house of the printing.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:38     And other directions concerning my servant Martin Harris shall be given him of the Spirit, that he may receive his inheritance as seemeth him good;
Doctrine and Covenants 58:39     And let him repent of his sins, for he seeketh the praise of the world.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:40     And also let my servant William W. Phelps stand in the office to which I have appointed him, and receive his inheritance in the land;
Doctrine and Covenants 58:41     And also he hath need to repent, for I, the Lord, am not well pleased with him, for he seeketh to excel, and he is not sufficiently meek before me.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:42     Behold, he who has repented of his sins, the same is forgiven, and I, the Lord, remember them no more.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:43     By this ye may know if a man repenteth of his sins--behold, he will confess them and forsake them.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:44     And now, verily, I say concerning the residue of the elders of my church, the time has not yet come, for many years, for them to receive their inheritance in this land, except they desire it through the prayer of faith, only as it shall be appointed unto them of the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:45     For, behold, they shall push the people together from the ends of the earth.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:46     Wherefore, assemble yourselves together; and they who are not appointed to stay in this land, let them preach the gospel in the regions round about; and after that let them return to their homes.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:47     Let them preach by the way, and bear testimony of the truth in all places, and call upon the rich, the high and the low, and the poor to repent.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:48     And let them build up churches, inasmuch as the inhabitants of the earth will repent.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:49     And let there be an agent appointed by the voice of the church, unto the church in Ohio, to receive moneys to purchase lands in Zion.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:50     And I give unto my servant Sidney Rigdon a commandment, that he shall write a description of the land of Zion, and a statement of the will of God, as it shall be made known by the Spirit unto him;
Doctrine and Covenants 58:51     And an epistle and subscription, to be presented unto all the churches to obtain moneys, to be put into the hands of the bishop, of himself or the agent, as seemeth him good or as he shall direct, to purchase lands for an inheritance for the children of God.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:52     For, behold, verily I say unto you, the Lord willeth that the disciples and the children of men should open their hearts, even to purchase this whole region of country, as soon as time will permit.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:53     Behold, here is wisdom. Let them do this lest they receive none inheritance, save it be by the shedding of blood.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:54     And again, inasmuch as there is land obtained, let there be workmen sent forth of all kinds unto this land, to labor for the saints of God.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:55     Let all these things be done in order; and let the privileges of the lands be made known from time to time, by the bishop or the agent of the church.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:56     And let the work of the gathering be not in haste, nor by flight; but let it be done as it shall be counseled by the elders of the church at the conferences, according to the knowledge which they receive from time to time.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:57     And let my servant Sidney Rigdon consecrate and dedicate this land, and the spot for the temple, unto the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:58     And let a conference meeting be called; and after that let my servants Sidney Rigdon and Joseph Smith, Jun., return, and also Oliver Cowdery with them, to accomplish the residue of the work which I have appointed unto them in their own land, and the residue as shall be ruled by the conferences.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:59     And let no man return from this land except he bear record by the way, of that which he knows and most assuredly believes.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:60     Let that which has been bestowed upon Ziba Peterson be taken from him; and let him stand as a member in the church, and labor with his own hands, with the brethren, until he is sufficiently chastened for all his sins; for he confesseth them not, and he thinketh to hide them.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:61     Let the residue of the elders of this church, who are coming to this land, some of whom are exceedingly blessed even above measure, also hold a conference upon this land.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:62     And let my servant Edward Partridge direct the conference which shall be held by them.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:63     And let them also return, preaching the gospel by the way, bearing record of the things which are revealed unto them.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:64     For, verily, the sound must go forth from this place into all the world, and unto the uttermost parts of the earth--the gospel must be preached unto every creature, with signs following them that believe.
Doctrine and Covenants 58:65     And behold the Son of Man cometh. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 59:1     Behold, blessed, saith the Lord, are they who have come up unto this land with an eye single to my glory, according to my commandments.
Doctrine and Covenants 59:2     For those that live shall inherit the earth, and those that die shall rest from all their labors, and their works shall follow them; and they shall receive a crown in the mansions of my Father, which I have prepared for them.
Doctrine and Covenants 59:3     Yea, blessed are they whose feet stand upon the land of Zion, who have obeyed my gospel; for they shall receive for their reward the good things of the earth, and it shall bring forth in its strength.
Doctrine and Covenants 59:4     And they shall also be crowned with blessings from above, yea, and with commandments not a few, and with revelations in their time--they that are faithful and diligent before me.
Doctrine and Covenants 59:5     Wherefore, I give unto them a commandment, saying thus: Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy might, mind, and strength; and in the name of Jesus Christ thou shalt serve him.
Doctrine and Covenants 59:6     Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Thou shalt not steal; neither commit adultery, nor kill, nor do anything like unto it.
Doctrine and Covenants 59:7     Thou shalt thank the Lord thy God in all things.
Doctrine and Covenants 59:8     Thou shalt offer a sacrifice unto the Lord thy God in righteousness, even that of a broken heart and a contrite spirit.
Doctrine and Covenants 59:9     And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day;
Doctrine and Covenants 59:10     For verily this is a day appointed unto you to rest from your labors, and to pay thy devotions unto the Most High;
Doctrine and Covenants 59:11     Nevertheless thy vows shall be offered up in righteousness on all days and at all times;
Doctrine and Covenants 59:12     But remember that on this, the Lord's day, thou shalt offer thine oblations and thy sacraments unto the Most High, confessing thy sins unto thy brethren, and before the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 59:13     And on this day thou shalt do none other thing, only let thy food be prepared with singleness of heart that thy fasting may be perfect, or, in other words, that thy joy may be full.
Doctrine and Covenants 59:14     Verily, this is fasting and prayer, or in other words, rejoicing and prayer.
Doctrine and Covenants 59:15     And inasmuch as ye do these things with thanksgiving, with cheerful hearts and countenances, not with much laughter, for this is sin, but with a glad heart and a cheerful countenance--
Doctrine and Covenants 59:16     Verily I say, that inasmuch as ye do this, the fulness of the earth is yours, the beasts of the field and the fowls of the air, and that which climbeth upon the trees and walketh upon the earth;
Doctrine and Covenants 59:17     Yea, and the herb, and the good things which come of the earth, whether for food or for raiment, or for houses, or for barns, or for orchards, or for gardens, or for vineyards;
Doctrine and Covenants 59:18     Yea, all things which come of the earth, in the season thereof, are made for the benefit and the use of man, both to please the eye and to gladden the heart;
Doctrine and Covenants 59:19     Yea, for food and for raiment, for taste and for smell, to strengthen the body and to enliven the soul.
Doctrine and Covenants 59:20     And it pleaseth God that he hath given all these things unto man; for unto this end were they made to be used, with judgment, not to excess, neither by extortion.
Doctrine and Covenants 59:21     And in nothing doth man offend God, or against none is his wrath kindled, save those who confess not his hand in all things, and obey not his commandments.
Doctrine and Covenants 59:22     Behold, this is according to the law and the prophets; wherefore, trouble me no more concerning this matter.
Doctrine and Covenants 59:23     But learn that he who doeth the works of righteousness shall receive his reward, even peace in this world, and eternal life in the world to come.
Doctrine and Covenants 59:24     I, the Lord, have spoken it, and the Spirit beareth record. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 60:1     Behold, thus saith the Lord unto the elders of his church, who are to return speedily to the land from whence they came: Behold, it pleaseth me, that you have come up hither;
Doctrine and Covenants 60:2     But with some I am not well pleased, for they will not open their mouths, but they hide the talent which I have given unto them, because of the fear of man. Wo unto such, for mine anger is kindled against them.
Doctrine and Covenants 60:3     And it shall come to pass, if they are not more faithful unto me, it shall be taken away, even that which they have.
Doctrine and Covenants 60:4     For I, the Lord, rule in the heavens above, and among the armies of the earth; and in the day when I shall make up my jewels, all men shall know what it is that bespeaketh the power of God.
Doctrine and Covenants 60:5     But, verily, I will speak unto you concerning your journey unto the land from whence you came. Let there be a craft made, or bought, as seemeth you good, it mattereth not unto me, and take your journey speedily for the place which is called St. Louis.
Doctrine and Covenants 60:6     And from thence let my servants, Sidney Rigdon, Joseph Smith, Jun., and Oliver Cowdery, take their journey for Cincinnati;
Doctrine and Covenants 60:7     And in this place let them lift up their voice and declare my word with loud voices, without wrath or doubting, lifting up holy hands upon them. For I am able to make you holy, and your sins are forgiven you.
Doctrine and Covenants 60:8     And let the residue take their journey from St. Louis, two by two, and preach the word, not in haste, among the congregations of the wicked, until they return to the churches from whence they came.
Doctrine and Covenants 60:9     And all this for the good of the churches; for this intent have I sent them.
Doctrine and Covenants 60:10     And let my servant Edward Partridge impart of the money which I have given him, a portion unto mine elders who are commanded to return;
Doctrine and Covenants 60:11     And he that is able, let him return it by the way of the agent; and he that is not, of him it is not required.
Doctrine and Covenants 60:12     And now I speak of the residue who are to come unto this land.
Doctrine and Covenants 60:13     Behold, they have been sent to preach my gospel among the congregations of the wicked; wherefore, I give unto them a commandment, thus: Thou shalt not idle away thy time, neither shalt thou bury thy talent that it may not be known.
Doctrine and Covenants 60:14     And after thou hast come up unto the land of Zion, and hast proclaimed my word, thou shalt speedily return, proclaiming my word among the congregations of the wicked, not in haste, neither in wrath nor with strife.
Doctrine and Covenants 60:15     And shake off the dust of thy feet against those who receive thee not, not in their presence, lest thou provoke them, but in secret; and wash thy feet, as a testimony against them in the day of judgment.
Doctrine and Covenants 60:16     Behold, this is sufficient for you, and the will of him who hath sent you.
Doctrine and Covenants 60:17     And by the mouth of my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., it shall be made known concerning Sidney Rigdon and Oliver Cowdery. The residue hereafter. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 61:1     Behold, and hearken unto the voice of him who has all power, who is from everlasting to everlasting, even Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end.
Doctrine and Covenants 61:2     Behold, verily thus saith the Lord unto you, O ye elders of my church, who are assembled upon this spot, whose sins are now forgiven you, for I, the Lord, forgive sins, and am merciful unto those who confess their sins with humble hearts;
Doctrine and Covenants 61:3     But verily I say unto you, that it is not needful for this whole company of mine elders to be moving swiftly upon the waters, whilst the inhabitants on either side are perishing in unbelief.
Doctrine and Covenants 61:4     Nevertheless, I suffered it that ye might bear record; behold, there are many dangers upon the waters, and more especially hereafter;
Doctrine and Covenants 61:5     For I, the Lord, have decreed in mine anger many destructions upon the waters; yea, and especially upon these waters.
Doctrine and Covenants 61:6     Nevertheless, all flesh is in mine hand, and he that is faithful among you shall not perish by the waters.
Doctrine and Covenants 61:7     Wherefore, it is expedient that my servant Sidney Gilbert and my servant William W. Phelps be in haste upon their errand and mission.
Doctrine and Covenants 61:8     Nevertheless, I would not suffer that ye should part until you were chastened for all your sins, that you might be one, that you might not perish in wickedness;
Doctrine and Covenants 61:9     But now, verily I say, it behooveth me that ye should part. Wherefore let my servants Sidney Gilbert and William W. Phelps take their former company, and let them take their journey in haste that they may fill their mission, and through faith they shall overcome;
Doctrine and Covenants 61:10     And inasmuch as they are faithful they shall be preserved, and I, the Lord, will be with them.
Doctrine and Covenants 61:11     And let the residue take that which is needful for clothing.
Doctrine and Covenants 61:12     Let my servant Sidney Gilbert take that which is not needful with him, as you shall agree.
Doctrine and Covenants 61:13     And now, behold, for your good I gave unto you a commandment concerning these things; and I, the Lord, will reason with you as with men in days of old.
Doctrine and Covenants 61:14     Behold, I, the Lord, in the beginning blessed the waters; but in the last days, by the mouth of my servant John, I cursed the waters.
Doctrine and Covenants 61:15     Wherefore, the days will come that no flesh shall be safe upon the waters.
Doctrine and Covenants 61:16     And it shall be said in days to come that none is able to go up to the land of Zion upon the waters, but he that is upright in heart.
Doctrine and Covenants 61:17     And, as I, the Lord, in the beginning cursed the land, even so in the last days have I blessed it, in its time, for the use of my saints, that they may partake the fatness thereof.
Doctrine and Covenants 61:18     And now I give unto you a commandment that what I say unto one I say unto all, that you shall forewarn your brethren concerning these waters, that they come not in journeying upon them, lest their faith fail and they are caught in snares;
Doctrine and Covenants 61:19     I, the Lord, have decreed, and the destroyer rideth upon the face thereof, and I revoke not the decree.
Doctrine and Covenants 61:20     I, the Lord, was angry with you yesterday, but today mine anger is turned away.
Doctrine and Covenants 61:21     Wherefore, let those concerning whom I have spoken, that should take their journey in haste--again I say unto you, let them take their journey in haste.
Doctrine and Covenants 61:22     And it mattereth not unto me, after a little, if it so be that they fill their mission, whether they go by water or by land; let this be as it is made known unto them according to their judgments hereafter.
Doctrine and Covenants 61:23     And now, concerning my servants, Sidney Rigdon, Joseph Smith, Jun., and Oliver Cowdery, let them come not again upon the waters, save it be upon the canal, while journeying unto their homes; or in other words they shall not come upon the waters to journey, save upon the canal.
Doctrine and Covenants 61:24     Behold, I, the Lord, have appointed a way for the journeying of my saints; and behold, this is the way--that after they leave the canal they shall journey by land, inasmuch as they are commanded to journey and go up unto the land of Zion;
Doctrine and Covenants 61:25     And they shall do like unto the children of Israel, pitching their tents by the way.
Doctrine and Covenants 61:26     And, behold, this commandment you shall give unto all your brethren.
Doctrine and Covenants 61:27     Nevertheless, unto whom is given power to command the waters, unto him it is given by the Spirit to know all his ways;
Doctrine and Covenants 61:28     Wherefore, let him do as the Spirit of the living God commandeth him, whether upon the land or upon the waters, as it remaineth with me to do hereafter.
Doctrine and Covenants 61:29     And unto you is given the course for the saints, or the way for the saints of the camp of the Lord, to journey.
Doctrine and Covenants 61:30     And again, verily I say unto you, my servants, Sidney Rigdon, Joseph Smith, Jun., and Oliver Cowdery, shall not open their mouths in the congregations of the wicked until they arrive at Cincinnati;
Doctrine and Covenants 61:31     And in that place they shall lift up their voices unto God against that people, yea, unto him whose anger is kindled against their wickedness, a people who are well-nigh ripened for destruction.
Doctrine and Covenants 61:32     And from thence let them journey for the congregations of their brethren, for their labors even now are wanted more abundantly among them than among the congregations of the wicked.
Doctrine and Covenants 61:33     And now, concerning the residue, let them journey and declare the word among the congregations of the wicked, inasmuch as it is given;
Doctrine and Covenants 61:34     And inasmuch as they do this they shall rid their garments, and they shall be spotless before me.
Doctrine and Covenants 61:35     And let them journey together, or two by two, as seemeth them good, only let my servant Reynolds Cahoon, and my servant Samuel H. Smith, with whom I am well pleased, be not separated until they return to their homes, and this for a wise purpose in me.
Doctrine and Covenants 61:36     And now, verily I say unto you, and what I say unto one I say unto all, be of good cheer, little children; for I am in your midst, and I have not forsaken you;
Doctrine and Covenants 61:37     And inasmuch as you have humbled yourselves before me, the blessings of the kingdom are yours.
Doctrine and Covenants 61:38     Gird up your loins and be watchful and be sober, looking forth for the coming of the Son of Man, for he cometh in an hour you think not.
Doctrine and Covenants 61:39     Pray always that you enter not into temptation, that you may abide the day of his coming, whether in life or in death. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 62:1     Behold, and hearken, O ye elders of my church, saith the Lord your God, even Jesus Christ, your advocate, who knoweth the weakness of man and how to succor them who are tempted.
Doctrine and Covenants 62:2     And verily mine eyes are upon those who have not as yet gone up unto the land of Zion; wherefore your mission is not yet full.
Doctrine and Covenants 62:3     Nevertheless, ye are blessed, for the testimony which ye have borne is recorded in heaven for the angels to look upon; and they rejoice over you, and your sins are forgiven you.
Doctrine and Covenants 62:4     And now continue your journey. Assemble yourselves upon the land of Zion; and hold a meeting and rejoice together, and offer a sacrament unto the Most High.
Doctrine and Covenants 62:5     And then you may return to bear record, yea, even altogether, or two by two, as seemeth you good, it mattereth not unto me; only be faithful, and declare glad tidings unto the inhabitants of the earth, or among the congregations of the wicked.
Doctrine and Covenants 62:6     Behold, I, the Lord, have brought you together that the promise might be fulfilled, that the faithful among you should be preserved and rejoice together in the land of Missouri. I, the Lord, promise the faithful and cannot lie.
Doctrine and Covenants 62:7     I, the Lord, am willing, if any among you desire to ride upon horses, or upon mules, or in chariots, he shall receive this blessing, if he receive it from the hand of the Lord, with a thankful heart in all things.
Doctrine and Covenants 62:8     These things remain with you to do according to judgment and the directions of the Spirit.
Doctrine and Covenants 62:9     Behold, the kingdom is yours. And behold, and lo, I am with the faithful always. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:1     Hearken, O ye people, and open your hearts and give ear from afar; and listen, you that call yourselves the people of the Lord, and hear the word of the Lord and his will concerning you.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:2     Yea, verily, I say, hear the word of him whose anger is kindled against the wicked and rebellious;
Doctrine and Covenants 63:3     Who willeth to take even them whom he will take, and preserveth in life them whom he will preserve;
Doctrine and Covenants 63:4     Who buildeth up at his own will and pleasure; and destroyeth when he pleases, and is able to cast the soul down to hell.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:5     Behold, I, the Lord, utter my voice, and it shall be obeyed.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:6     Wherefore, verily I say, let the wicked take heed, and let the rebellious fear and tremble; and let the unbelieving hold their lips, for the day of wrath shall come upon them as a whirlwind, and all flesh shall know that I am God.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:7     And he that seeketh signs shall see signs, but not unto salvation.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:8     Verily, I say unto you, there are those among you who seek signs, and there have been such even from the beginning;
Doctrine and Covenants 63:9     But, behold, faith cometh not by signs, but signs follow those that believe.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:10     Yea, signs come by faith, not by the will of men, nor as they please, but by the will of God.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:11     Yea, signs come by faith, unto mighty works, for without faith no man pleaseth God; and with whom God is angry he is not well pleased; wherefore, unto such he showeth no signs, only in wrath unto their condemnation.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:12     Wherefore, I, the Lord, am not pleased with those among you who have sought after signs and wonders for faith, and not for the good of men unto my glory.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:13     Nevertheless, I give commandments, and many have turned away from my commandments and have not kept them.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:14     There were among you adulterers and adulteresses; some of whom have turned away from you, and others remain with you that hereafter shall be revealed.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:15     Let such beware and repent speedily, lest judgment shall come upon them as a snare, and their folly shall be made manifest, and their works shall follow them in the eyes of the people.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:16     And verily I say unto you, as I have said before, he that looketh on a woman to lust after her, or if any shall commit adultery in their hearts, they shall not have the Spirit, but shall deny the faith and shall fear.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:17     Wherefore, I, the Lord, have said that the fearful, and the unbelieving, and all liars, and whosoever loveth and maketh a lie, and the whoremonger, and the sorcerer, shall have their part in that lake which burneth with fire and brimstone, which is the second death.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:18     Verily I say, that they shall not have part in the first resurrection.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:19     And now behold, I, the Lord, say unto you that ye are not justified, because these things are among you.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:20     Nevertheless, he that endureth in faith and doeth my will, the same shall overcome, and shall receive an inheritance upon the earth when the day of transfiguration shall come;
Doctrine and Covenants 63:21     When the earth shall be transfigured, even according to the pattern which was shown unto mine apostles upon the mount; of which account the fulness ye have not yet received.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:22     And now, verily I say unto you, that as I said that I would make known my will unto you, behold I will make it known unto you, not by the way of commandment, for there are many who observe not to keep my commandments.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:23     But unto him that keepeth my commandments I will give the mysteries of my kingdom, and the same shall be in him a well of living water, springing up unto everlasting life.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:24     And now, behold, this is the will of the Lord your God concerning his saints, that they should assemble themselves together unto the land of Zion, not in haste, lest there should be confusion, which bringeth pestilence.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:25     Behold, the land of Zion--I, the Lord, hold it in mine own hands;
Doctrine and Covenants 63:26     Nevertheless, I, the Lord, render unto Caesar the things which are Caesar's.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:27     Wherefore, I the Lord will that you should purchase the lands, that you may have advantage of the world, that you may have claim on the world, that they may not be stirred up unto anger.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:28     For Satan putteth it into their hearts to anger against you, and to the shedding of blood.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:29     Wherefore, the land of Zion shall not be obtained but by purchase or by blood, otherwise there is none inheritance for you.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:30     And if by purchase, behold you are blessed;
Doctrine and Covenants 63:31     And if by blood, as you are forbidden to shed blood, lo, your enemies are upon you, and ye shall be scourged from city to city, and from synagogue to synagogue, and but few shall stand to receive an inheritance.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:32     I, the Lord, am angry with the wicked; I am holding my Spirit from the inhabitants of the earth.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:33     I have sworn in my wrath, and decreed wars upon the face of the earth, and the wicked shall slay the wicked, and fear shall come upon every man;
Doctrine and Covenants 63:34     And the saints also shall hardly escape; nevertheless, I, the Lord, am with them, and will come down in heaven from the presence of my Father and consume the wicked with unquenchable fire.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:35     And behold, this is not yet, but by and by.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:36     Wherefore, seeing that I, the Lord, have decreed all these things upon the face of the earth, I will that my saints should be assembled upon the land of Zion;
Doctrine and Covenants 63:37     And that every man should take righteousness in his hands and faithfulness upon his loins, and lift a warning voice unto the inhabitants of the earth; and declare both by word and by flight that desolation shall come upon the wicked.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:38     Wherefore, let my disciples in Kirtland arrange their temporal concerns, who dwell upon this farm.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:39     Let my servant Titus Billings, who has the care thereof, dispose of the land, that he may be prepared in the coming spring to take his journey up unto the land of Zion, with those that dwell upon the face thereof, excepting those whom I shall reserve unto myself, that shall not go until I shall command them.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:40     And let all the moneys which can be spared, it mattereth not unto me whether it be little or much, be sent up unto the land of Zion, unto them whom I have appointed to receive.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:41     Behold, I, the Lord, will give unto my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., power that he shall be enabled to discern by the Spirit those who shall go up unto the land of Zion, and those of my disciples who shall tarry.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:42     Let my servant Newel K. Whitney retain his store, or in other words, the store, yet for a little season.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:43     Nevertheless, let him impart all the money which he can impart, to be sent up unto the land of Zion.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:44     Behold, these things are in his own hands, let him do according to wisdom.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:45     Verily I say, let him be ordained as an agent unto the disciples that shall tarry, and let him be ordained unto this power;
Doctrine and Covenants 63:46     And now speedily visit the churches, expounding these things unto them, with my servant Oliver Cowdery. Behold, this is my will, obtaining moneys even as I have directed.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:47     He that is faithful and endureth shall overcome the world.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:48     He that sendeth up treasures unto the land of Zion shall receive an inheritance in this world, and his works shall follow him, and also a reward in the world to come.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:49     Yea, and blessed are the dead that die in the Lord, from henceforth, when the Lord shall come, and old things shall pass away, and all things become new, they shall rise from the dead and shall not die after, and shall receive an inheritance before the Lord, in the holy city.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:50     And he that liveth when the Lord shall come, and hath kept the faith, blessed is he; nevertheless, it is appointed to him to die at the age of man.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:51     Wherefore, children shall grow up until they become old; old men shall die; but they shall not sleep in the dust, but they shall be changed in the twinkling of an eye.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:52     Wherefore, for this cause preached the apostles unto the world the resurrection of the dead.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:53     These things are the things that ye must look for; and, speaking after the manner of the Lord, they are now nigh at hand, and in a time to come, even in the day of the coming of the Son of Man.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:54     And until that hour there will be foolish virgins among the wise; and at that hour cometh an entire separation of the righteous and the wicked; and in that day will I send mine angels to pluck out the wicked and cast them into unquenchable fire.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:55     And now behold, verily I say unto you, I, the Lord, am not pleased with my servant Sidney Rigdon; he exalted himself in his heart, and received not counsel, but grieved the Spirit;
Doctrine and Covenants 63:56     Wherefore his writing is not acceptable unto the Lord, and he shall make another; and if the Lord receive it not, behold he standeth no longer in the office to which I have appointed him.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:57     And again, verily I say unto you, those who desire in their hearts, in meekness, to warn sinners to repentance, let them be ordained unto this power.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:58     For this is a day of warning, and not a day of many words. For I, the Lord, am not to be mocked in the last days.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:59     Behold, I am from above, and my power lieth beneath. I am over all, and in all, and through all, and search all things, and the day cometh that all things shall be subject unto me.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:60     Behold, I am Alpha and Omega, even Jesus Christ.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:61     Wherefore, let all men beware how they take my name in their lips--
Doctrine and Covenants 63:62     For behold, verily I say, that many there be who are under this condemnation, who use the name of the Lord, and use it in vain, having not authority.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:63     Wherefore, let the church repent of their sins, and I, the Lord, will own them; otherwise they shall be cut off.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:64     Remember that that which cometh from above is sacred, and must be spoken with care, and by constraint of the Spirit; and in this there is no condemnation, and ye receive the Spirit through prayer; wherefore, without this there remaineth condemnation.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:65     Let my servants, Joseph Smith, Jun., and Sidney Rigdon, seek them a home, as they are taught through prayer by the Spirit.
Doctrine and Covenants 63:66     These things remain to overcome through patience, that such may receive a more exceeding and eternal weight of glory, otherwise, a greater condemnation. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 64:1     Behold, thus saith the Lord your God unto you, O ye elders of my church, hearken ye and hear, and receive my will concerning you.
Doctrine and Covenants 64:2     For verily I say unto you, I will that ye should overcome the world; wherefore I will have compassion upon you.
Doctrine and Covenants 64:3     There are those among you who have sinned; but verily I say, for this once, for mine own glory, and for the salvation of souls, I have forgiven you your sins.
Doctrine and Covenants 64:4     I will be merciful unto you, for I have given unto you the kingdom.
Doctrine and Covenants 64:5     And the keys of the mysteries of the kingdom shall not be taken from my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., through the means I have appointed, while he liveth, inasmuch as he obeyeth mine ordinances.
Doctrine and Covenants 64:6     There are those who have sought occasion against him without cause;
Doctrine and Covenants 64:7     Nevertheless, he has sinned; but verily I say unto you, I, the Lord, forgive sins unto those who confess their sins before me and ask forgiveness, who have not sinned unto death.
Doctrine and Covenants 64:8     My disciples, in days of old, sought occasion against one another and forgave not one another in their hearts; and for this evil they were afflicted and sorely chastened.
Doctrine and Covenants 64:9     Wherefore, I say unto you, that ye ought to forgive one another; for he that forgiveth not his brother his trespasses standeth condemned before the Lord; for there remaineth in him the greater sin.
Doctrine and Covenants 64:10     I, the Lord, will forgive whom I will forgive, but of you it is required to forgive all men.
Doctrine and Covenants 64:11     And ye ought to say in your hearts--let God judge between me and thee, and reward thee according to thy deeds.
Doctrine and Covenants 64:12     And him that repenteth not of his sins, and confesseth them not, ye shall bring before the church, and do with him as the scripture saith unto you, either by commandment or by revelation.
Doctrine and Covenants 64:13     And this ye shall do that God may be glorified--not because ye forgive not, having not compassion, but that ye may be justified in the eyes of the law, that ye may not offend him who is your lawgiver--
Doctrine and Covenants 64:14     Verily I say, for this cause ye shall do these things.
Doctrine and Covenants 64:15     Behold, I, the Lord, was angry with him who was my servant Ezra Booth, and also my servant Isaac Morley, for they kept not the law, neither the commandment;
Doctrine and Covenants 64:16     They sought evil in their hearts, and I, the Lord, withheld my Spirit. They condemned for evil that thing in which there was no evil; nevertheless I have forgiven my servant Isaac Morley.
Doctrine and Covenants 64:17     And also my servant Edward Partridge, behold, he hath sinned, and Satan seeketh to destroy his soul; but when these things are made known unto them, and they repent of the evil, they shall be forgiven.
Doctrine and Covenants 64:18     And now, verily I say that it is expedient in me that my servant Sidney Gilbert, after a few weeks, shall return upon his business, and to his agency in the land of Zion;
Doctrine and Covenants 64:19     And that which he hath seen and heard may be made known unto my disciples, that they perish not. And for this cause have I spoken these things.
Doctrine and Covenants 64:20     And again, I say unto you, that my servant Isaac Morley may not be tempted above that which he is able to bear, and counsel wrongfully to your hurt, I gave commandment that his farm should be sold.
Doctrine and Covenants 64:21     I will not that my servant Frederick G. Williams should sell his farm, for I, the Lord, will to retain a strong hold in the land of Kirtland, for the space of five years, in the which I will not overthrow the wicked, that thereby I may save some.
Doctrine and Covenants 64:22     And after that day, I, the Lord, will not hold any guilty that shall go with an open heart up to the land of Zion; for I, the Lord, require the hearts of the children of men.
Doctrine and Covenants 64:23     Behold, now it is called today until the coming of the Son of Man, and verily it is a day of sacrifice, and a day for the tithing of my people; for he that is tithed shall not be burned at his coming.
Doctrine and Covenants 64:24     For after today cometh the burning--this is speaking after the manner of the Lord--for verily I say, tomorrow all the proud and they that do wickedly shall be as stubble; and I will burn them up, for I am the Lord of Hosts; and I will not spare any that remain in Babylon.
Doctrine and Covenants 64:25     Wherefore, if ye believe me, ye will labor while it is called today.
Doctrine and Covenants 64:26     And it is not meet that my servants, Newel K. Whitney and Sidney Gilbert, should sell their store and their possessions here; for this is not wisdom until the residue of the church, which remaineth in this place, shall go up unto the land of Zion.
Doctrine and Covenants 64:27     Behold, it is said in my laws, or forbidden, to get in debt to thine enemies;
Doctrine and Covenants 64:28     But behold, it is not said at any time that the Lord should not take when he please, and pay as seemeth him good.
Doctrine and Covenants 64:29     Wherefore, as ye are agents, ye are on the Lord's errand; and whatever ye do according to the will of the Lord is the Lord's business.
Doctrine and Covenants 64:30     And he hath set you to provide for his saints in these last days, that they may obtain an inheritance in the land of Zion.
Doctrine and Covenants 64:31     And behold, I, the Lord, declare unto you, and my words are sure and shall not fail, that they shall obtain it.
Doctrine and Covenants 64:32     But all things must come to pass in their time.
Doctrine and Covenants 64:33     Wherefore, be not weary in well-doing, for ye are laying the foundation of a great work. And out of small things proceedeth that which is great.
Doctrine and Covenants 64:34     Behold, the Lord requireth the heart and a willing mind; and the willing and obedient shall eat the good of the land of Zion in these last days.
Doctrine and Covenants 64:35     And the rebellious shall be cut off out of the land of Zion, and shall be sent away, and shall not inherit the land.
Doctrine and Covenants 64:36     For, verily I say that the rebellious are not of the blood of Ephraim, wherefore they shall be plucked out.
Doctrine and Covenants 64:37     Behold, I, the Lord, have made my church in these last days like unto a judge sitting on a hill, or in a high place, to judge the nations.
Doctrine and Covenants 64:38     For it shall come to pass that the inhabitants of Zion shall judge all things pertaining to Zion.
Doctrine and Covenants 64:39     And liars and hypocrites shall be proved by them, and they who are not apostles and prophets shall be known.
Doctrine and Covenants 64:40     And even the bishop, who is a judge, and his counselors, if they are not faithful in their stewardships shall be condemned, and others shall be planted in their stead.
Doctrine and Covenants 64:41     For, behold, I say unto you that Zion shall flourish, and the glory of the Lord shall be upon her;
Doctrine and Covenants 64:42     And she shall be an ensign unto the people, and there shall come unto her out of every nation under heaven.
Doctrine and Covenants 64:43     And the day shall come when the nations of the earth shall tremble because of her, and shall fear because of her terrible ones. The Lord hath spoken it. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 65:1     Hearken, and lo, a voice as of one sent down from on high, who is mighty and powerful, whose going forth is unto the ends of the earth, yea, whose voice is unto men--Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make his paths straight.
Doctrine and Covenants 65:2     The keys of the kingdom of God are committed unto man on the earth, and from thence shall the gospel roll forth unto the ends of the earth, as the stone which is cut out of the mountain without hands shall roll forth, until it has filled the whole earth.
Doctrine and Covenants 65:3     Yea, a voice crying--Prepare ye the way of the Lord, prepare ye the supper of the Lamb, make ready for the Bridegroom.
Doctrine and Covenants 65:4     Pray unto the Lord, call upon his holy name, make known his wonderful works among the people.
Doctrine and Covenants 65:5     Call upon the Lord, that his kingdom may go forth upon the earth, that the inhabitants thereof may receive it, and be prepared for the days to come, in the which the Son of Man shall come down in heaven, clothed in the brightness of his glory, to meet the kingdom of God which is set up on the earth.
Doctrine and Covenants 65:6     Wherefore, may the kingdom of God go forth, that the kingdom of heaven may come, that thou, O God, mayest be glorified in heaven so on earth, that thine enemies may be subdued; for thine is the honor, power and glory, forever and ever. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 66:1     Behold, thus saith the Lord unto my servant William E. McLellin--Blessed are you, inasmuch as you have turned away from your iniquities, and have received my truths, saith the Lord your Redeemer, the Savior of the world, even of as many as believe on my name.
Doctrine and Covenants 66:2     Verily I say unto you, blessed are you for receiving mine everlasting covenant, even the fulness of my gospel, sent forth unto the children of men, that they might have life and be made partakers of the glories which are to be revealed in the last days, as it was written by the prophets and apostles in days of old.
Doctrine and Covenants 66:3     Verily I say unto you, my servant William, that you are clean, but not all; repent, therefore, of those things which are not pleasing in my sight, saith the Lord, for the Lord will show them unto you.
Doctrine and Covenants 66:4     And now, verily, I, the Lord, will show unto you what I will concerning you, or what is my will concerning you.
Doctrine and Covenants 66:5     Behold, verily I say unto you, that it is my will that you should proclaim my gospel from land to land, and from city to city, yea, in those regions round about where it has not been proclaimed.
Doctrine and Covenants 66:6     Tarry not many days in this place; go not up unto the land of Zion as yet; but inasmuch as you can send, send; otherwise, think not of thy property.
Doctrine and Covenants 66:7     Go unto the eastern lands, bear testimony in every place, unto every people and in their synagogues, reasoning with the people.
Doctrine and Covenants 66:8     Let my servant Samuel H. Smith go with you, and forsake him not, and give him thine instructions; and he that is faithful shall be made strong in every place; and I, the Lord, will go with you.
Doctrine and Covenants 66:9     Lay your hands upon the sick, and they shall recover. Return not till I, the Lord, shall send you. Be patient in affliction. Ask, and ye shall receive; knock, and it shall be opened unto you.
Doctrine and Covenants 66:10     Seek not to be cumbered. Forsake all unrighteousness. Commit not adultery--a temptation with which thou hast been troubled.
Doctrine and Covenants 66:11     Keep these sayings, for they are true and faithful; and thou shalt magnify thine office, and push many people to Zion with songs of everlasting joy upon their heads.
Doctrine and Covenants 66:12     Continue in these things even unto the end, and you shall have a crown of eternal life at the right hand of my Father, who is full of grace and truth.
Doctrine and Covenants 66:13     Verily, thus saith the Lord your God, your Redeemer, even Jesus Christ. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 67:1     Behold and hearken, O ye elders of my church, who have assembled yourselves together, whose prayers I have heard, and whose hearts I know, and whose desires have come up before me.
Doctrine and Covenants 67:2     Behold and lo, mine eyes are upon you, and the heavens and the earth are in mine hands, and the riches of eternity are mine to give.
Doctrine and Covenants 67:3     Ye endeavored to believe that ye should receive the blessing which was offered unto you; but behold, verily I say unto you there were fears in your hearts, and verily this is the reason that ye did not receive.
Doctrine and Covenants 67:4     And now I, the Lord, give unto you a testimony of the truth of these commandments which are lying before you.
Doctrine and Covenants 67:5     Your eyes have been upon my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., and his language you have known, and his imperfections you have known; and you have sought in your hearts knowledge that you might express beyond his language; this you also know.
Doctrine and Covenants 67:6     Now, seek ye out of the Book of Commandments, even the least that is among them, and appoint him that is the most wise among you;
Doctrine and Covenants 67:7     Or, if there be any among you that shall make one like unto it, then ye are justified in saying that ye do not know that they are true;
Doctrine and Covenants 67:8     But if ye cannot make one like unto it, ye are under condemnation if ye do not bear record that they are true.
Doctrine and Covenants 67:9     For ye know that there is no unrighteousness in them, and that which is righteous cometh down from above, from the Father of lights.
Doctrine and Covenants 67:10     And again, verily I say unto you that it is your privilege, and a promise I give unto you that have been ordained unto this ministry, that inasmuch as you strip yourselves from jealousies and fears, and humble yourselves before me, for ye are not sufficiently humble, the veil shall be rent and you shall see me and know that I am--not with the carnal neither natural mind, but with the spiritual.
Doctrine and Covenants 67:11     For no man has seen God at any time in the flesh, except quickened by the Spirit of God.
Doctrine and Covenants 67:12     Neither can any natural man abide the presence of God, neither after the carnal mind.
Doctrine and Covenants 67:13     Ye are not able to abide the presence of God now, neither the ministering of angels; wherefore, continue in patience until ye are perfected.
Doctrine and Covenants 67:14     Let not your minds turn back; and when ye are worthy, in mine own due time, ye shall see and know that which was conferred upon you by the hands of my servant Joseph Smith, Jun. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 68:1     My servant, Orson Hyde, was called by his ordination to proclaim the everlasting gospel, by the Spirit of the living God, from people to people, and from land to land, in the congregations of the wicked, in their synagogues, reasoning with and expounding all scriptures unto them.
Doctrine and Covenants 68:2     And, behold, and lo, this is an ensample unto all those who were ordained unto this priesthood, whose mission is appointed unto them to go forth--
Doctrine and Covenants 68:3     And this is the ensample unto them, that they shall speak as they are moved upon by the Holy Ghost.
Doctrine and Covenants 68:4     And whatsoever they shall speak when moved upon by the Holy Ghost shall be scripture, shall be the will of the Lord, shall be the mind of the Lord, shall be the word of the Lord, shall be the voice of the Lord, and the power of God unto salvation.
Doctrine and Covenants 68:5     Behold, this is the promise of the Lord unto you, O ye my servants.
Doctrine and Covenants 68:6     Wherefore, be of good cheer, and do not fear, for I the Lord am with you, and will stand by you; and ye shall bear record of me, even Jesus Christ, that I am the Son of the living God, that I was, that I am, and that I am to come.
Doctrine and Covenants 68:7     This is the word of the Lord unto you, my servant Orson Hyde, and also unto my servant Luke Johnson, and unto my servant Lyman Johnson, and unto my servant William E. McLellin, and unto all the faithful elders of my church--
Doctrine and Covenants 68:8     Go ye into all the world, preach the gospel to every creature, acting in the authority which I have given you, baptizing in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost.
Doctrine and Covenants 68:9     And he that believeth and is baptized shall be saved, and he that believeth not shall be damned.
Doctrine and Covenants 68:10     And he that believeth shall be blest with signs following, even as it is written.
Doctrine and Covenants 68:11     And unto you it shall be given to know the signs of the times, and the signs of the coming of the Son of Man;
Doctrine and Covenants 68:12     And of as many as the Father shall bear record, to you shall be given power to seal them up unto eternal life. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 68:13     And now, concerning the items in addition to the covenants and commandments, they are these--
Doctrine and Covenants 68:14     There remain hereafter, in the due time of the Lord, other bishops to be set apart unto the church, to minister even according to the first;
Doctrine and Covenants 68:15     Wherefore they shall be high priests who are worthy, and they shall be appointed by the First Presidency of the Melchizedek Priesthood, except they be literal descendants of Aaron.
Doctrine and Covenants 68:16     And if they be literal descendants of Aaron they have a legal right to the bishopric, if they are the firstborn among the sons of Aaron;
Doctrine and Covenants 68:17     For the firstborn holds the right of the presidency over this priesthood, and the keys or authority of the same.
Doctrine and Covenants 68:18     No man has a legal right to this office, to hold the keys of this priesthood, except he be a literal descendant and the firstborn of Aaron.
Doctrine and Covenants 68:19     But, as a high priest of the Melchizedek Priesthood has authority to officiate in all the lesser offices he may officiate in the office of bishop when no literal descendant of Aaron can be found, provided he is called and set apart and ordained unto this power, under the hands of the First Presidency of the Melchizedek Priesthood.
Doctrine and Covenants 68:20     And a literal descendant of Aaron, also, must be designated by this Presidency, and found worthy, and anointed, and ordained under the hands of this Presidency, otherwise they are not legally authorized to officiate in their priesthood.
Doctrine and Covenants 68:21     But, by virtue of the decree concerning their right of the priesthood descending from father to son, they may claim their anointing if at any time they can prove their lineage, or do ascertain it by revelation from the Lord under the hands of the above named Presidency.
Doctrine and Covenants 68:22     And again, no bishop or high priest who shall be set apart for this ministry shall be tried or condemned for any crime, save it be before the First Presidency of the church;
Doctrine and Covenants 68:23     And inasmuch as he is found guilty before this Presidency, by testimony that cannot be impeached, he shall be condemned;
Doctrine and Covenants 68:24     And if he repent he shall be forgiven, according to the covenants and commandments of the church.
Doctrine and Covenants 68:25     And again, inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents.
Doctrine and Covenants 68:26     For this shall be a law unto the inhabitants of Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized.
Doctrine and Covenants 68:27     And their children shall be baptized for the remission of their sins when eight years old, and receive the laying on of the hands.
Doctrine and Covenants 68:28     And they shall also teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 68:29     And the inhabitants of Zion shall also observe the Sabbath day to keep it holy.
Doctrine and Covenants 68:30     And the inhabitants of Zion also shall remember their labors, inasmuch as they are appointed to labor, in all faithfulness; for the idler shall be had in remembrance before the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 68:31     Now, I, the Lord, am not well pleased with the inhabitants of Zion, for there are idlers among them; and their children are also growing up in wickedness; they also seek not earnestly the riches of eternity, but their eyes are full of greediness.
Doctrine and Covenants 68:32     These things ought not to be, and must be done away from among them; wherefore, let my servant Oliver Cowdery carry these sayings unto the land of Zion.
Doctrine and Covenants 68:33     And a commandment I give unto them--that he that observeth not his prayers before the Lord in the season thereof, let him be had in remembrance before the judge of my people.
Doctrine and Covenants 68:34     These sayings are true and faithful; wherefore, transgress them not, neither take therefrom.
Doctrine and Covenants 68:35     Behold, I am Alpha and Omega, and I come quickly. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 69:1     Hearken unto me, saith the Lord your God, for my servant Oliver Cowdery's sake. It is not wisdom in me that he should be entrusted with the commandments and the moneys which he shall carry unto the land of Zion, except one go with him who will be true and faithful.
Doctrine and Covenants 69:2     Wherefore, I, the Lord, will that my servant, John Whitmer, should go with my servant Oliver Cowdery;
Doctrine and Covenants 69:3     And also that he shall continue in writing and making a history of all the important things which he shall observe and know concerning my church;
Doctrine and Covenants 69:4     And also that he receive counsel and assistance from my servant Oliver Cowdery and others.
Doctrine and Covenants 69:5     And also, my servants who are abroad in the earth should send forth the accounts of their stewardships to the land of Zion;
Doctrine and Covenants 69:6     For the land of Zion shall be a seat and a place to receive and do all these things.
Doctrine and Covenants 69:7     Nevertheless, let my servant John Whitmer travel many times from place to place, and from church to church, that he may the more easily obtain knowledge--
Doctrine and Covenants 69:8     Preaching and expounding, writing, copying, selecting, and obtaining all things which shall be for the good of the church, and for the rising generations that shall grow up on the land of Zion, to possess it from generation to generation, forever and ever. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 70:1     Behold, and hearken, O ye inhabitants of Zion, and all ye people of my church who are afar off, and hear the word of the Lord which I give unto my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., and also unto my servant Martin Harris, and also unto my servant Oliver Cowdery, and also unto my servant John Whitmer, and also unto my servant Sidney Rigdon, and also unto my servant William W. Phelps, by the way of commandment unto them.
Doctrine and Covenants 70:2     For I give unto them a commandment; wherefore hearken and hear, for thus saith the Lord unto them--
Doctrine and Covenants 70:3     I, the Lord, have appointed them, and ordained them to be stewards over the revelations and commandments which I have given unto them, and which I shall hereafter give unto them;
Doctrine and Covenants 70:4     And an account of this stewardship will I require of them in the day of judgment.
Doctrine and Covenants 70:5     Wherefore, I have appointed unto them, and this is their business in the church of God, to manage them and the concerns thereof, yea, the benefits thereof.
Doctrine and Covenants 70:6     Wherefore, a commandment I give unto them, that they shall not give these things unto the church, neither unto the world;
Doctrine and Covenants 70:7     Nevertheless, inasmuch as they receive more than is needful for their necessities and their wants, it shall be given into my storehouse;
Doctrine and Covenants 70:8     And the benefits shall be consecrated unto the inhabitants of Zion, and unto their generations, inasmuch as they become heirs according to the laws of the kingdom.
Doctrine and Covenants 70:9     Behold, this is what the Lord requires of every man in his stewardship, even as I, the Lord, have appointed or shall hereafter appoint unto any man.
Doctrine and Covenants 70:10     And behold, none are exempt from this law who belong to the church of the living God;
Doctrine and Covenants 70:11     Yea, neither the bishop, neither the agent who keepeth the Lord's storehouse, neither he who is appointed in a stewardship over temporal things.
Doctrine and Covenants 70:12     He who is appointed to administer spiritual things, the same is worthy of his hire, even as those who are appointed to a stewardship to administer in temporal things;
Doctrine and Covenants 70:13     Yea, even more abundantly, which abundance is multiplied unto them through the manifestations of the Spirit.
Doctrine and Covenants 70:14     Nevertheless, in your temporal things you shall be equal, and this not grudgingly, otherwise the abundance of the manifestations of the Spirit shall be withheld.
Doctrine and Covenants 70:15     Now, this commandment I give unto my servants for their benefit while they remain, for a manifestation of my blessings upon their heads, and for a reward of their diligence and for their security;
Doctrine and Covenants 70:16     For food and for raiment; for an inheritance; for houses and for lands, in whatsoever circumstances I, the Lord, shall place them, and whithersoever I, the Lord, shall send them.
Doctrine and Covenants 70:17     For they have been faithful over many things, and have done well inasmuch as they have not sinned.
Doctrine and Covenants 70:18     Behold, I, the Lord, am merciful and will bless them, and they shall enter into the joy of these things. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 71:1     Behold, thus saith the Lord unto you my servants Joseph Smith, Jun., and Sidney Rigdon, that the time has verily come that it is necessary and expedient in me that you should open your mouths in proclaiming my gospel, the things of the kingdom, expounding the mysteries thereof out of the scriptures, according to that portion of Spirit and power which shall be given unto you, even as I will.
Doctrine and Covenants 71:2     Verily I say unto you, proclaim unto the world in the regions round about, and in the church also, for the space of a season, even until it shall be made known unto you.
Doctrine and Covenants 71:3     Verily this is a mission for a season, which I give unto you.
Doctrine and Covenants 71:4     Wherefore, labor ye in my vineyard. Call upon the inhabitants of the earth, and bear record, and prepare the way for the commandments and revelations which are to come.
Doctrine and Covenants 71:5     Now, behold this is wisdom; whoso readeth, let him understand and receive also;
Doctrine and Covenants 71:6     For unto him that receiveth it shall be given more abundantly, even power.
Doctrine and Covenants 71:7     Wherefore, confound your enemies; call upon them to meet you both in public and in private; and inasmuch as ye are faithful their shame shall be made manifest.
Doctrine and Covenants 71:8     Wherefore, let them bring forth their strong reasons against the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 71:9     Verily, thus saith the Lord unto you--there is no weapon that is formed against you shall prosper;
Doctrine and Covenants 71:10     And if any man lift his voice against you he shall be confounded in mine own due time.
Doctrine and Covenants 71:11     Wherefore, keep my commandments; they are true and faithful. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 72:1     Hearken, and listen to the voice of the Lord, O ye who have assembled yourselves together, who are the high priests of my church, to whom the kingdom and power have been given.
Doctrine and Covenants 72:2     For verily thus saith the Lord, it is expedient in me for a bishop to be appointed unto you, or of you, unto the church in this part of the Lord's vineyard.
Doctrine and Covenants 72:3     And verily in this thing ye have done wisely, for it is required of the Lord, at the hand of every steward, to render an account of his stewardship, both in time and in eternity.
Doctrine and Covenants 72:4     For he who is faithful and wise in time is accounted worthy to inherit the mansions prepared for him of my Father.
Doctrine and Covenants 72:5     Verily I say unto you, the elders of the church in this part of my vineyard shall render an account of their stewardship unto the bishop, who shall be appointed of me in this part of my vineyard.
Doctrine and Covenants 72:6     These things shall be had on record, to be handed over unto the bishop in Zion.
Doctrine and Covenants 72:7     And the duty of the bishop shall be made known by the commandments which have been given, and the voice of the conference.
Doctrine and Covenants 72:8     And now, verily I say unto you, my servant Newel K. Whitney is the man who shall be appointed and ordained unto this power. This is the will of the Lord your God, your Redeemer. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 72:9     The word of the Lord, in addition to the law which has been given, making known the duty of the bishop who has been ordained unto the church in this part of the vineyard, which is verily this--
Doctrine and Covenants 72:10     To keep the Lord's storehouse; to receive the funds of the church in this part of the vineyard;
Doctrine and Covenants 72:11     To take an account of the elders as before has been commanded; and to administer to their wants, who shall pay for that which they receive, inasmuch as they have wherewith to pay;
Doctrine and Covenants 72:12     That this also may be consecrated to the good of the church, to the poor and needy.
Doctrine and Covenants 72:13     And he who hath not wherewith to pay, an account shall be taken and handed over to the bishop of Zion, who shall pay the debt out of that which the Lord shall put into his hands.
Doctrine and Covenants 72:14     And the labors of the faithful who labor in spiritual things, in administering the gospel and the things of the kingdom unto the church, and unto the world, shall answer the debt unto the bishop in Zion;
Doctrine and Covenants 72:15     Thus it cometh out of the church, for according to the law every man that cometh up to Zion must lay all things before the bishop in Zion.
Doctrine and Covenants 72:16     And now, verily I say unto you, that as every elder in this part of the vineyard must give an account of his stewardship unto the bishop in this part of the vineyard--
Doctrine and Covenants 72:17     A certificate from the judge or bishop in this part of the vineyard, unto the bishop in Zion, rendereth every man acceptable, and answereth all things, for an inheritance, and to be received as a wise steward and as a faithful laborer;
Doctrine and Covenants 72:18     Otherwise he shall not be accepted of the bishop of Zion.
Doctrine and Covenants 72:19     And now, verily I say unto you, let every elder who shall give an account unto the bishop of the church in this part of the vineyard be recommended by the church or churches, in which he labors, that he may render himself and his accounts approved in all things.
Doctrine and Covenants 72:20     And again, let my servants who are appointed as stewards over the literary concerns of my church have claim for assistance upon the bishop or bishops in all things--
Doctrine and Covenants 72:21     That the revelations may be published, and go forth unto the ends of the earth; that they also may obtain funds which shall benefit the church in all things;
Doctrine and Covenants 72:22     That they also may render themselves approved in all things, and be accounted as wise stewards.
Doctrine and Covenants 72:23     And now, behold, this shall be an ensample for all the extensive branches of my church, in whatsoever land they shall be established. And now I make an end of my sayings. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 72:24     A few words in addition to the laws of the kingdom, respecting the members of the church--they that are appointed by the Holy Spirit to go up unto Zion, and they who are privileged to go up unto Zion--
Doctrine and Covenants 72:25     Let them carry up unto the bishop a certificate from three elders of the church, or a certificate from the bishop;
Doctrine and Covenants 72:26     Otherwise he who shall go up unto the land of Zion shall not be accounted as a wise steward. This is also an ensample. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 73:1     For verily, thus saith the Lord, it is expedient in me that they should continue preaching the gospel, and in exhortation to the churches in the regions round about, until conference;
Doctrine and Covenants 73:2     And then, behold, it shall be made known unto them, by the voice of the conference, their several missions.
Doctrine and Covenants 73:3     Now, verily I say unto you my servants, Joseph Smith, Jun., and Sidney Rigdon, saith the Lord, it is expedient to translate again;
Doctrine and Covenants 73:4     And, inasmuch as it is practicable, to preach in the regions round about until conference; and after that it is expedient to continue the work of translation until it be finished.
Doctrine and Covenants 73:5     And let this be a pattern unto the elders until further knowledge, even as it is written.
Doctrine and Covenants 73:6     Now I give no more unto you at this time. Gird up your loins and be sober. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 74:1     For the unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wife, and the unbelieving wife is sanctified by the husband; else were your children unclean, but now are they holy.
Doctrine and Covenants 74:2     Now, in the days of the apostles the law of circumcision was had among all the Jews who believed not the gospel of Jesus Christ.
Doctrine and Covenants 74:3     And it came to pass that there arose a great contention among the people concerning the law of circumcision, for the unbelieving husband was desirous that his children should be circumcised and become subject to the law of Moses, which law was fulfilled.
Doctrine and Covenants 74:4     And it came to pass that the children, being brought up in subjection to the law of Moses, gave heed to the traditions of their fathers and believed not the gospel of Christ, wherein they became unholy.
Doctrine and Covenants 74:5     Wherefore, for this cause the apostle wrote unto the church, giving unto them a commandment, not of the Lord, but of himself, that a believer should not be united to an unbeliever; except the law of Moses should be done away among them,
Doctrine and Covenants 74:6     That their children might remain without circumcision; and that the tradition might be done away, which saith that little children are unholy; for it was had among the Jews;
Doctrine and Covenants 74:7     But little children are holy, being sanctified through the atonement of Jesus Christ; and this is what the scriptures mean.
Doctrine and Covenants 75:1     Verily, verily, I say unto you, I who speak even by the voice of my Spirit, even Alpha and Omega, your Lord and your God--
Doctrine and Covenants 75:2     Hearken, O ye who have given your names to go forth to proclaim my gospel, and to prune my vineyard.
Doctrine and Covenants 75:3     Behold, I say unto you that it is my will that you should go forth and not tarry, neither be idle but labor with your might--
Doctrine and Covenants 75:4     Lifting up your voices as with the sound of a trump, proclaiming the truth according to the revelations and commandments which I have given you.
Doctrine and Covenants 75:5     And thus, if ye are faithful ye shall be laden with many sheaves, and crowned with honor, and glory, and immortality, and eternal life.
Doctrine and Covenants 75:6     Therefore, verily I say unto my servant William E. McLellin, I revoke the commission which I gave unto him to go unto the eastern countries;
Doctrine and Covenants 75:7     And I give unto him a new commission and a new commandment, in the which I, the Lord, chasten him for the murmurings of his heart;
Doctrine and Covenants 75:8     And he sinned; nevertheless, I forgive him and say unto him again, Go ye into the south countries.
Doctrine and Covenants 75:9     And let my servant Luke Johnson go with him, and proclaim the things which I have commanded them--
Doctrine and Covenants 75:10     Calling on the name of the Lord for the Comforter, which shall teach them all things that are expedient for them--
Doctrine and Covenants 75:11     Praying always that they faint not; and inasmuch as they do this, I will be with them even unto the end.
Doctrine and Covenants 75:12     Behold, this is the will of the Lord your God concerning you. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 75:13     And again, verily thus saith the Lord, let my servant Orson Hyde and my servant Samuel H. Smith take their journey into the eastern countries, and proclaim the things which I have commanded them; and inasmuch as they are faithful, lo, I will be with them even unto the end.
Doctrine and Covenants 75:14     And again, verily I say unto my servant Lyman Johnson, and unto my servant Orson Pratt, they shall also take their journey into the eastern countries; and behold, and lo, I am with them also, even unto the end.
Doctrine and Covenants 75:15     And again, I say unto my servant Asa Dodds, and unto my servant Calves Wilson, that they also shall take their journey unto the western countries, and proclaim my gospel, even as I have commanded them.
Doctrine and Covenants 75:16     And he who is faithful shall overcome all things, and shall be lifted up at the last day.
Doctrine and Covenants 75:17     And again, I say unto my servant Major N. Ashley, and my servant Burr Riggs, let them take their journey also into the south country.
Doctrine and Covenants 75:18     Yea, let all those take their journey, as I have commanded them, going from house to house, and from village to village, and from city to city.
Doctrine and Covenants 75:19     And in whatsoever house ye enter, and they receive you, leave your blessing upon that house.
Doctrine and Covenants 75:20     And in whatsoever house ye enter, and they receive you not, ye shall depart speedily from that house, and shake off the dust of your feet as a testimony against them.
Doctrine and Covenants 75:21     And you shall be filled with joy and gladness; and know this, that in the day of judgment you shall be judges of that house, and condemn them;
Doctrine and Covenants 75:22     And it shall be more tolerable for the heathen in the day of judgment, than for that house; therefore, gird up your loins and be faithful, and ye shall overcome all things, and be lifted up at the last day. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 75:23     And again, thus saith the Lord unto you, O ye elders of my church, who have given your names that you might know his will concerning you--
Doctrine and Covenants 75:24     Behold, I say unto you, that it is the duty of the church to assist in supporting the families of those, and also to support the families of those who are called and must needs be sent unto the world to proclaim the gospel unto the world.
Doctrine and Covenants 75:25     Wherefore, I, the Lord, give unto you this commandment, that ye obtain places for your families, inasmuch as your brethren are willing to open their hearts.
Doctrine and Covenants 75:26     And let all such as can obtain places for their families, and support of the church for them, not fail to go into the world, whether to the east or to the west, or to the north, or to the south.
Doctrine and Covenants 75:27     Let them ask and they shall receive, knock and it shall be opened unto them, and be made known from on high, even by the Comforter, whither they shall go.
Doctrine and Covenants 75:28     And again, verily I say unto you, that every man who is obliged to provide for his own family, let him provide, and he shall in nowise lose his crown; and let him labor in the church.
Doctrine and Covenants 75:29     Let every man be diligent in all things. And the idler shall not have place in the church, except he repent and mend his ways.
Doctrine and Covenants 75:30     Wherefore, let my servant Simeon Carter and my servant Emer Harris be united in the ministry;
Doctrine and Covenants 75:31     And also my servant Ezra Thayre and my servant Thomas B. Marsh;
Doctrine and Covenants 75:32     Also my servant Hyrum Smith and my servant Reynolds Cahoon;
Doctrine and Covenants 75:33     And also my servant Daniel Stanton and my servant Seymour Brunson;
Doctrine and Covenants 75:34     And also my servant Sylvester Smith and my servant Gideon Carter;
Doctrine and Covenants 75:35     And also my servant Ruggles Eames and my servant Stephen Burnett;
Doctrine and Covenants 75:36     And also my servant Micah B. Welton and also my servant Eden Smith. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:1     Hear, O ye heavens, and give ear, O earth, and rejoice ye inhabitants thereof, for the Lord is God, and beside him there is no Savior.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:2     Great is his wisdom, marvelous are his ways, and the extent of his doings none can find out.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:3     His purposes fail not, neither are there any who can stay his hand.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:4     From eternity to eternity he is the same, and his years never fail.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:5     For thus saith the Lord--I, the Lord, am merciful and gracious unto those who fear me, and delight to honor those who serve me in righteousness and in truth unto the end.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:6     Great shall be their reward and eternal shall be their glory.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:7     And to them will I reveal all mysteries, yea, all the hidden mysteries of my kingdom from days of old, and for ages to come, will I make known unto them the good pleasure of my will concerning all things pertaining to my kingdom.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:8     Yea, even the wonders of eternity shall they know, and things to come will I show them, even the things of many generations.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:9     And their wisdom shall be great, and their understanding reach to heaven; and before them the wisdom of the wise shall perish, and the understanding of the prudent shall come to naught.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:10     For by my Spirit will I enlighten them, and by my power will I make known unto them the secrets of my will--yea, even those things which eye has not seen, nor ear heard, nor yet entered into the heart of man.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:11     We, Joseph Smith, Jun., and Sidney Rigdon, being in the Spirit on the sixteenth day of February, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty-two--
Doctrine and Covenants 76:12     By the power of the Spirit our eyes were opened and our understandings were enlightened, so as to see and understand the things of God--
Doctrine and Covenants 76:13     Even those things which were from the beginning before the world was, which were ordained of the Father, through his Only Begotten Son, who was in the bosom of the Father, even from the beginning;
Doctrine and Covenants 76:14     Of whom we bear record; and the record which we bear is the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ, who is the Son, whom we saw and with whom we conversed in the heavenly vision.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:15     For while we were doing the work of translation, which the Lord had appointed unto us, we came to the twenty-ninth verse of the fifth chapter of John, which was given unto us as follows--
Doctrine and Covenants 76:16     Speaking of the resurrection of the dead, concerning those who shall hear the voice of the Son of Man:
Doctrine and Covenants 76:17     And shall come forth; they who have done good, in the resurrection of the just; and they who have done evil, in the resurrection of the unjust.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:18     Now this caused us to marvel, for it was given unto us of the Spirit.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:19     And while we meditated upon these things, the Lord touched the eyes of our understandings and they were opened, and the glory of the Lord shone round about.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:20     And we beheld the glory of the Son, on the right hand of the Father, and received of his fulness;
Doctrine and Covenants 76:21     And saw the holy angels, and them who are sanctified before his throne, worshiping God, and the Lamb, who worship him forever and ever.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:22     And now, after the many testimonies which have been given of him, this is the testimony, last of all, which we give of him: That he lives!
Doctrine and Covenants 76:23     For we saw him, even on the right hand of God; and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the Only Begotten of the Father--
Doctrine and Covenants 76:24     That by him, and through him, and of him, the worlds are and were created, and the inhabitants thereof are begotten sons and daughters unto God.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:25     And this we saw also, and bear record, that an angel of God who was in authority in the presence of God, who rebelled against the Only Begotten Son whom the Father loved and who was in the bosom of the Father, was thrust down from the presence of God and the Son,
Doctrine and Covenants 76:26     And was called Perdition, for the heavens wept over him--he was Lucifer, a son of the morning.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:27     And we beheld, and lo, he is fallen! is fallen, even a son of the morning!
Doctrine and Covenants 76:28     And while we were yet in the Spirit, the Lord commanded us that we should write the vision; for we beheld Satan, that old serpent, even the devil, who rebelled against God, and sought to take the kingdom of our God and his Christ--
Doctrine and Covenants 76:29     Wherefore, he maketh war with the saints of God, and encompasseth them round about.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:30     And we saw a vision of the sufferings of those with whom he made war and overcame, for thus came the voice of the Lord unto us:
Doctrine and Covenants 76:31     Thus saith the Lord concerning all those who know my power, and have been made partakers thereof, and suffered themselves through the power of the devil to be overcome, and to deny the truth and defy my power--
Doctrine and Covenants 76:32     They are they who are the sons of perdition, of whom I say that it had been better for them never to have been born;
Doctrine and Covenants 76:33     For they are vessels of wrath, doomed to suffer the wrath of God, with the devil and his angels in eternity;
Doctrine and Covenants 76:34     Concerning whom I have said there is no forgiveness in this world nor in the world to come--
Doctrine and Covenants 76:35     Having denied the Holy Spirit after having received it, and having denied the Only Begotten Son of the Father, having crucified him unto themselves and put him to an open shame.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:36     These are they who shall go away into the lake of fire and brimstone, with the devil and his angels--
Doctrine and Covenants 76:37     And the only ones on whom the second death shall have any power;
Doctrine and Covenants 76:38     Yea, verily, the only ones who shall not be redeemed in the due time of the Lord, after the sufferings of his wrath.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:39     For all the rest shall be brought forth by the resurrection of the dead, through the triumph and the glory of the Lamb, who was slain, who was in the bosom of the Father before the worlds were made.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:40     And this is the gospel, the glad tidings, which the voice out of the heavens bore record unto us--
Doctrine and Covenants 76:41     That he came into the world, even Jesus, to be crucified for the world, and to bear the sins of the world, and to sanctify the world, and to cleanse it from all unrighteousness;
Doctrine and Covenants 76:42     That through him all might be saved whom the Father had put into his power and made by him;
Doctrine and Covenants 76:43     Who glorifies the Father, and saves all the works of his hands, except those sons of perdition who deny the Son after the Father has revealed him.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:44     Wherefore, he saves all except them--they shall go away into everlasting punishment, which is endless punishment, which is eternal punishment, to reign with the devil and his angels in eternity, where their worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched, which is their torment--
Doctrine and Covenants 76:45     And the end thereof, neither the place thereof, nor their torment, no man knows;
Doctrine and Covenants 76:46     Neither was it revealed, neither is, neither will be revealed unto man, except to them who are made partakers thereof;
Doctrine and Covenants 76:47     Nevertheless, I, the Lord, show it by vision unto many, but straightway shut it up again;
Doctrine and Covenants 76:48     Wherefore, the end, the width, the height, the depth, and the misery thereof, they understand not, neither any man except those who are ordained unto this condemnation.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:49     And we heard the voice, saying: Write the vision, for lo, this is the end of the vision of the sufferings of the ungodly.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:50     And again we bear record--for we saw and heard, and this is the testimony of the gospel of Christ concerning them who shall come forth in the resurrection of the just--
Doctrine and Covenants 76:51     They are they who received the testimony of Jesus, and believed on his name and were baptized after the manner of his burial, being buried in the water in his name, and this according to the commandment which he has given--
Doctrine and Covenants 76:52     That by keeping the commandments they might be washed and cleansed from all their sins, and receive the Holy Spirit by the laying on of the hands of him who is ordained and sealed unto this power;
Doctrine and Covenants 76:53     And who overcome by faith, and are sealed by the Holy Spirit of promise, which the Father sheds forth upon all those who are just and true.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:54     They are they who are the church of the Firstborn.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:55     They are they into whose hands the Father has given all things--
Doctrine and Covenants 76:56     They are they who are priests and kings, who have received of his fulness, and of his glory;
Doctrine and Covenants 76:57     And are priests of the Most High, after the order of Melchizedek, which was after the order of Enoch, which was after the order of the Only Begotten Son.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:58     Wherefore, as it is written, they are gods, even the sons of God--
Doctrine and Covenants 76:59     Wherefore, all things are theirs, whether life or death, or things present, or things to come, all are theirs and they are Christ's, and Christ is God's.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:60     And they shall overcome all things.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:61     Wherefore, let no man glory in man, but rather let him glory in God, who shall subdue all enemies under his feet.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:62     These shall dwell in the presence of God and his Christ forever and ever.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:63     These are they whom he shall bring with him, when he shall come in the clouds of heaven to reign on the earth over his people.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:64     These are they who shall have part in the first resurrection.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:65     These are they who shall come forth in the resurrection of the just.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:66     These are they who are come unto Mount Zion, and unto the city of the living God, the heavenly place, the holiest of all.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:67     These are they who have come to an innumerable company of angels, to the general assembly and church of Enoch, and of the Firstborn.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:68     These are they whose names are written in heaven, where God and Christ are the judge of all.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:69     These are they who are just men made perfect through Jesus the mediator of the new covenant, who wrought out this perfect atonement through the shedding of his own blood.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:70     These are they whose bodies are celestial, whose glory is that of the sun, even the glory of God, the highest of all, whose glory the sun of the firmament is written of as being typical.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:71     And again, we saw the terrestrial world, and behold and lo, these are they who are of the terrestrial, whose glory differs from that of the church of the Firstborn who have received the fulness of the Father, even as that of the moon differs from the sun in the firmament.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:72     Behold, these are they who died without law;
Doctrine and Covenants 76:73     And also they who are the spirits of men kept in prison, whom the Son visited, and preached the gospel unto them, that they might be judged according to men in the flesh;
Doctrine and Covenants 76:74     Who received not the testimony of Jesus in the flesh, but afterwards received it.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:75     These are they who are honorable men of the earth, who were blinded by the craftiness of men.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:76     These are they who receive of his glory, but not of his fulness.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:77     These are they who receive of the presence of the Son, but not of the fulness of the Father.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:78     Wherefore, they are bodies terrestrial, and not bodies celestial, and differ in glory as the moon differs from the sun.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:79     These are they who are not valiant in the testimony of Jesus; wherefore, they obtain not the crown over the kingdom of our God.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:80     And now this is the end of the vision which we saw of the terrestrial, that the Lord commanded us to write while we were yet in the Spirit.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:81     And again, we saw the glory of the telestial, which glory is that of the lesser, even as the glory of the stars differs from that of the glory of the moon in the firmament.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:82     These are they who received not the gospel of Christ, neither the testimony of Jesus.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:83     These are they who deny not the Holy Spirit.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:84     These are they who are thrust down to hell.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:85     These are they who shall not be redeemed from the devil until the last resurrection, until the Lord, even Christ the Lamb, shall have finished his work.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:86     These are they who receive not of his fulness in the eternal world, but of the Holy Spirit through the ministration of the terrestrial;
Doctrine and Covenants 76:87     And the terrestrial through the ministration of the celestial.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:88     And also the telestial receive it of the administering of angels who are appointed to minister for them, or who are appointed to be ministering spirits for them; for they shall be heirs of salvation.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:89     And thus we saw, in the heavenly vision, the glory of the telestial, which surpasses all understanding;
Doctrine and Covenants 76:90     And no man knows it except him to whom God has revealed it.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:91     And thus we saw the glory of the terrestrial which excels in all things the glory of the telestial, even in glory, and in power, and in might, and in dominion.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:92     And thus we saw the glory of the celestial, which excels in all things--where God, even the Father, reigns upon his throne forever and ever;
Doctrine and Covenants 76:93     Before whose throne all things bow in humble reverence, and give him glory forever and ever.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:94     They who dwell in his presence are the church of the Firstborn; and they see as they are seen, and know as they are known, having received of his fulness and of his grace;
Doctrine and Covenants 76:95     And he makes them equal in power, and in might, and in dominion.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:96     And the glory of the celestial is one, even as the glory of the sun is one.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:97     And the glory of the terrestrial is one, even as the glory of the moon is one.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:98     And the glory of the telestial is one, even as the glory of the stars is one; for as one star differs from another star in glory, even so differs one from another in glory in the telestial world;
Doctrine and Covenants 76:99     For these are they who are of Paul, and of Apollos, and of Cephas.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:100     These are they who say they are some of one and some of another--some of Christ and some of John, and some of Moses, and some of Elias, and some of Esaias, and some of Isaiah, and some of Enoch;
Doctrine and Covenants 76:101     But received not the gospel, neither the testimony of Jesus, neither the prophets, neither the everlasting covenant.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:102     Last of all, these all are they who will not be gathered with the saints, to be caught up unto the church of the Firstborn, and received into the cloud.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:103     These are they who are liars, and sorcerers, and adulterers, and whoremongers, and whosoever loves and makes a lie.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:104     These are they who suffer the wrath of God on earth.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:105     These are they who suffer the vengeance of eternal fire.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:106     These are they who are cast down to hell and suffer the wrath of Almighty God, until the fulness of times, when Christ shall have subdued all enemies under his feet, and shall have perfected his work;
Doctrine and Covenants 76:107     When he shall deliver up the kingdom, and present it unto the Father, spotless, saying: I have overcome and have trodden the wine-press alone, even the wine-press of the fierceness of the wrath of Almighty God.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:108     Then shall he be crowned with the crown of his glory, to sit on the throne of his power to reign forever and ever.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:109     But behold, and lo, we saw the glory and the inhabitants of the telestial world, that they were as innumerable as the stars in the firmament of heaven, or as the sand upon the seashore;
Doctrine and Covenants 76:110     And heard the voice of the Lord saying: These all shall bow the knee, and every tongue shall confess to him who sits upon the throne forever and ever;
Doctrine and Covenants 76:111     For they shall be judged according to their works, and every man shall receive according to his own works, his own dominion, in the mansions which are prepared;
Doctrine and Covenants 76:112     And they shall be servants of the Most High; but where God and Christ dwell they cannot come, worlds without end.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:113     This is the end of the vision which we saw, which we were commanded to write while we were yet in the Spirit.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:114     But great and marvelous are the works of the Lord, and the mysteries of his kingdom which he showed unto us, which surpass all understanding in glory, and in might, and in dominion;
Doctrine and Covenants 76:115     Which he commanded us we should not write while we were yet in the Spirit, and are not lawful for man to utter;
Doctrine and Covenants 76:116     Neither is man capable to make them known, for they are only to be seen and understood by the power of the Holy Spirit, which God bestows on those who love him, and purify themselves before him;
Doctrine and Covenants 76:117     To whom he grants this privilege of seeing and knowing for themselves;
Doctrine and Covenants 76:118     That through the power and manifestation of the Spirit, while in the flesh, they may be able to bear his presence in the world of glory.
Doctrine and Covenants 76:119     And to God and the Lamb be glory, and honor, and dominion forever and ever. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 77:1     Q. What is the sea of glass spoken of by John, 4th chapter, and 6th verse of the Revelation? A. It is the earth, in its sanctified, immortal, and eternal state.
Doctrine and Covenants 77:2     Q. What are we to understand by the four beasts, spoken of in the same verse? A. They are figurative expressions, used by the Revelator, John, in describing heaven, the paradise of God, the happiness of man, and of beasts, and of creeping things, and of the fowls of the air; that which is spiritual being in the likeness of that which is temporal; and that which is temporal in the likeness of that which is spiritual; the spirit of man in the likeness of his person, as also the spirit of the beast, and every other creature which God has created.
Doctrine and Covenants 77:3     Q. Are the four beasts limited to individual beasts, or do they represent classes or orders? A. They are limited to four individual beasts, which were shown to John, to represent the glory of the classes of beings in their destined order or sphere of creation, in the enjoyment of their eternal felicity.
Doctrine and Covenants 77:4     Q. What are we to understand by the eyes and wings, which the beasts had? A. Their eyes are a representation of light and knowledge, that is, they are full of knowledge; and their wings are a representation of power, to move, to act, etc.
Doctrine and Covenants 77:5     Q. What are we to understand by the four and twenty elders, spoken of by John? A. We are to understand that these elders whom John saw, were elders who had been faithful in the work of the ministry and were dead; who belonged to the seven churches, and were then in the paradise of God.
Doctrine and Covenants 77:6     Q. What are we to understand by the book which John saw, which was sealed on the back with seven seals? A. We are to understand that it contains the revealed will, mysteries, and the works of God; the hidden things of his economy concerning this earth during the seven thousand years of its continuance, or its temporal existence.
Doctrine and Covenants 77:7     Q. What are we to understand by the seven seals with which it was sealed? A. We are to understand that the first seal contains the things of the first thousand years, and the second also of the second thousand years, and so on until the seventh.
Doctrine and Covenants 77:8     Q. What are we to understand by the four angels, spoken of in the 7th chapter and 1st verse of Revelation? A. We are to understand that they are four angels sent forth from God, to whom is given power over the four parts of the earth, to save life and to destroy; these are they who have the everlasting gospel to commit to every nation, kindred, tongue, and people; having power to shut up the heavens, to seal up unto life, or to cast down to the regions of darkness.
Doctrine and Covenants 77:9     Q. What are we to understand by the angel ascending from the east, Revelation 7th chapter and 2nd verse? A. We are to understand that the angel ascending from the east is he to whom is given the seal of the living God over the twelve tribes of Israel; wherefore, he crieth unto the four angels having the everlasting gospel, saying: Hurt not the earth, neither the sea, nor the trees, till we have sealed the servants of our God in their foreheads. And, if you will receive it, this is Elias which was to come to gather together the tribes of Israel and restore all things.
Doctrine and Covenants 77:10     Q. What time are the things spoken of in this chapter to be accomplished? A. They are to be accomplished in the sixth thousand years, or the opening of the sixth seal.
Doctrine and Covenants 77:11     Q. What are we to understand by sealing the one hundred and forty-four thousand, out of all the tribes of Israel--twelve thousand out of every tribe? A. We are to understand that those who are sealed are high priests, ordained unto the holy order of God, to administer the everlasting gospel; for they are they who are ordained out of every nation, kindred, tongue, and people, by the angels to whom is given power over the nations of the earth, to bring as many as will come to the church of the Firstborn.
Doctrine and Covenants 77:12     Q. What are we to understand by the sounding of the trumpets, mentioned in the 8th chapter of Revelation? A. We are to understand that as God made the world in six days, and on the seventh day he finished his work, and sanctified it, and also formed man out of the dust of the earth, even so, in the beginning of the seventh thousand years will the Lord God sanctify the earth, and complete the salvation of man, and judge all things, and shall redeem all things, except that which he hath not put into his power, when he shall have sealed all things, unto the end of all things; and the sounding of the trumpets of the seven angels are the preparing and finishing of his work, in the beginning of the seventh thousand years--the preparing of the way before the time of his coming.
Doctrine and Covenants 77:13     Q. When are the things to be accomplished, which are written in the 9th chapter of Revelation? A. They are to be accomplished after the opening of the seventh seal, before the coming of Christ.
Doctrine and Covenants 77:14     Q. What are we to understand by the little book which was eaten by John, as mentioned in the 10th chapter of Revelation? A. We are to understand that it was a mission, and an ordinance, for him to gather the tribes of Israel; behold, this is Elias, who, as it is written, must come and restore all things.
Doctrine and Covenants 77:15     Q. What is to be understood by the two witnesses, in the eleventh chapter of Revelation? A. They are two prophets that are to be raised up to the Jewish nation in the last days, at the time of the restoration, and to prophesy to the Jews after they are gathered and have built the city of Jerusalem in the land of their fathers.
Doctrine and Covenants 78:1     The Lord spake unto Joseph Smith, Jun., saying: Hearken unto me, saith the Lord your God, who are ordained unto the high priesthood of my church, who have assembled yourselves together;
Doctrine and Covenants 78:2     And listen to the counsel of him who has ordained you from on high, who shall speak in your ears the words of wisdom, that salvation may be unto you in that thing which you have presented before me, saith the Lord God.
Doctrine and Covenants 78:3     For verily I say unto you, the time has come, and is now at hand; and behold, and lo, it must needs be that there be an organization of my people, in regulating and establishing the affairs of the storehouse for the poor of my people, both in this place and in the land of Zion--
Doctrine and Covenants 78:4     For a permanent and everlasting establishment and order unto my church, to advance the cause, which ye have espoused, to the salvation of man, and to the glory of your Father who is in heaven;
Doctrine and Covenants 78:5     That you may be equal in the bonds of heavenly things, yea, and earthly things also, for the obtaining of heavenly things.
Doctrine and Covenants 78:6     For if ye are not equal in earthly things ye cannot be equal in obtaining heavenly things;
Doctrine and Covenants 78:7     For if you will that I give unto you a place in the celestial world, you must prepare yourselves by doing the things which I have commanded you and required of you.
Doctrine and Covenants 78:8     And now, verily thus saith the Lord, it is expedient that all things be done unto my glory, by you who are joined together in this order;
Doctrine and Covenants 78:9     Or, in other words, let my servant Newel K. Whitney and my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., and my servant Sidney Rigdon sit in council with the saints which are in Zion;
Doctrine and Covenants 78:10     Otherwise Satan seeketh to turn their hearts away from the truth, that they become blinded and understand not the things which are prepared for them.
Doctrine and Covenants 78:11     Wherefore, a commandment I give unto you, to prepare and organize yourselves by a bond or everlasting covenant that cannot be broken.
Doctrine and Covenants 78:12     And he who breaketh it shall lose his office and standing in the church, and shall be delivered over to the buffetings of Satan until the day of redemption.
Doctrine and Covenants 78:13     Behold, this is the preparation wherewith I prepare you, and the foundation, and the ensample which I give unto you, whereby you may accomplish the commandments which are given you;
Doctrine and Covenants 78:14     That through my providence, notwithstanding the tribulation which shall descend upon you, that the church may stand independent above all other creatures beneath the celestial world;
Doctrine and Covenants 78:15     That you may come up unto the crown prepared for you, and be made rulers over many kingdoms, saith the Lord God, the Holy One of Zion, who hath established the foundations of Adam-ondi-Ahman;
Doctrine and Covenants 78:16     Who hath appointed Michael your prince, and established his feet, and set him upon high, and given unto him the keys of salvation under the counsel and direction of the Holy One, who is without beginning of days or end of life.
Doctrine and Covenants 78:17     Verily, verily, I say unto you, ye are little children, and ye have not as yet understood how great blessings the Father hath in his own hands and prepared for you;
Doctrine and Covenants 78:18     And ye cannot bear all things now; nevertheless, be of good cheer, for I will lead you along. The kingdom is yours and the blessings thereof are yours, and the riches of eternity are yours.
Doctrine and Covenants 78:19     And he who receiveth all things with thankfulness shall be made glorious; and the things of this earth shall be added unto him, even an hundred fold, yea, more.
Doctrine and Covenants 78:20     Wherefore, do the things which I have commanded you, saith your Redeemer, even the Son Ahman, who prepareth all things before he taketh you;
Doctrine and Covenants 78:21     For ye are the church of the Firstborn, and he will take you up in a cloud, and appoint every man his portion.
Doctrine and Covenants 78:22     And he that is a faithful and wise steward shall inherit all things. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 79:1     Verily I say unto you, that it is my will that my servant Jared Carter should go again into the eastern countries, from place to place, and from city to city, in the power of the ordination wherewith he has been ordained, proclaiming glad tidings of great joy, even the everlasting gospel.
Doctrine and Covenants 79:2     And I will send upon him the Comforter, which shall teach him the truth and the way whither he shall go;
Doctrine and Covenants 79:3     And inasmuch as he is faithful, I will crown him again with sheaves.
Doctrine and Covenants 79:4     Wherefore, let your heart be glad, my servant Jared Carter, and fear not, saith your Lord, even Jesus Christ. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 80:1     Verily, thus saith the Lord unto you my servant Stephen Burnett: Go ye, go ye into the world and preach the gospel to every creature that cometh under the sound of your voice.
Doctrine and Covenants 80:2     And inasmuch as you desire a companion, I will give unto you my servant Eden Smith.
Doctrine and Covenants 80:3     Wherefore, go ye and preach my gospel, whether to the north or to the south, to the east or to the west, it mattereth not, for ye cannot go amiss.
Doctrine and Covenants 80:4     Therefore, declare the things which ye have heard, and verily believe, and know to be true.
Doctrine and Covenants 80:5     Behold, this is the will of him who hath called you, your Redeemer, even Jesus Christ. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 81:1     Verily, verily, I say unto you my servant Frederick G. Williams: Listen to the voice of him who speaketh, to the word of the Lord your God, and hearken to the calling wherewith you are called, even to be a high priest in my church, and a counselor unto my servant Joseph Smith, Jun.;
Doctrine and Covenants 81:2     Unto whom I have given the keys of the kingdom, which belong always unto the Presidency of the High Priesthood:
Doctrine and Covenants 81:3     Therefore, verily I acknowledge him and will bless him, and also thee, inasmuch as thou art faithful in counsel, in the office which I have appointed unto you, in prayer always, vocally and in thy heart, in public and in private, also in thy ministry in proclaiming the gospel in the land of the living, and among thy brethren.
Doctrine and Covenants 81:4     And in doing these things thou wilt do the greatest good unto thy fellow beings, and wilt promote the glory of him who is your Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 81:5     Wherefore, be faithful; stand in the office which I have appointed unto you; succor the weak, lift up the hands which hang down, and strengthen the feeble knees.
Doctrine and Covenants 81:6     And if thou art faithful unto the end thou shalt have a crown of immortality, and eternal life in the mansions which I have prepared in the house of my Father.
Doctrine and Covenants 81:7     Behold, and lo, these are the words of Alpha and Omega, even Jesus Christ. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 82:1     Verily, verily, I say unto you, my servants, that inasmuch as you have forgiven one another your trespasses, even so I, the Lord, forgive you.
Doctrine and Covenants 82:2     Nevertheless, there are those among you who have sinned exceedingly; yea, even all of you have sinned; but verily I say unto you, beware from henceforth, and refrain from sin, lest sore judgments fall upon your heads.
Doctrine and Covenants 82:3     For of him unto whom much is given much is required; and he who sins against the greater light shall receive the greater condemnation.
Doctrine and Covenants 82:4     Ye call upon my name for revelations, and I give them unto you; and inasmuch as ye keep not my sayings, which I give unto you, ye become transgressors; and justice and judgment are the penalty which is affixed unto my law.
Doctrine and Covenants 82:5     Therefore, what I say unto one I say unto all: Watch, for the adversary spreadeth his dominions, and darkness reigneth;
Doctrine and Covenants 82:6     And the anger of God kindleth against the inhabitants of the earth; and none doeth good, for all have gone out of the way.
Doctrine and Covenants 82:7     And now, verily I say unto you, I, the Lord, will not lay any sin to your charge; go your ways and sin no more; but unto that soul who sinneth shall the former sins return, saith the Lord your God.
Doctrine and Covenants 82:8     And again, I say unto you, I give unto you a new commandment, that you may understand my will concerning you;
Doctrine and Covenants 82:9     Or, in other words, I give unto you directions how you may act before me, that it may turn to you for your salvation.
Doctrine and Covenants 82:10     I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise.
Doctrine and Covenants 82:11     Therefore, verily I say unto you, that it is expedient for my servants Edward Partridge and Newel K. Whitney, A. Sidney Gilbert and Sidney Rigdon, and my servant Joseph Smith, and John Whitmer and Oliver Cowdery, and W. W. Phelps and Martin Harris to be bound together by a bond and covenant that cannot be broken by transgression, except judgment shall immediately follow, in your several stewardships--
Doctrine and Covenants 82:12     To manage the affairs of the poor, and all things pertaining to the bishopric both in the land of Zion and in the land of Kirtland;
Doctrine and Covenants 82:13     For I have consecrated the land of Kirtland in mine own due time for the benefit of the saints of the Most High, and for a stake to Zion.
Doctrine and Covenants 82:14     For Zion must increase in beauty, and in holiness; her borders must be enlarged; her stakes must be strengthened; yea, verily I say unto you, Zion must arise and put on her beautiful garments.
Doctrine and Covenants 82:15     Therefore, I give unto you this commandment, that ye bind yourselves by this covenant, and it shall be done according to the laws of the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 82:16     Behold, here is wisdom also in me for your good.
Doctrine and Covenants 82:17     And you are to be equal, or in other words, you are to have equal claims on the properties, for the benefit of managing the concerns of your stewardships, every man according to his wants and his needs, inasmuch as his wants are just--
Doctrine and Covenants 82:18     And all this for the benefit of the church of the living God, that every man may improve upon his talent, that every man may gain other talents, yea, even an hundred fold, to be cast into the Lord's storehouse, to become the common property of the whole church--
Doctrine and Covenants 82:19     Every man seeking the interest of his neighbor, and doing all things with an eye single to the glory of God.
Doctrine and Covenants 82:20     This order I have appointed to be an everlasting order unto you, and unto your successors, inasmuch as you sin not.
Doctrine and Covenants 82:21     And the soul that sins against this covenant, and hardeneth his heart against it, shall be dealt with according to the laws of my church, and shall be delivered over to the buffetings of Satan until the day of redemption.
Doctrine and Covenants 82:22     And now, verily I say unto you, and this is wisdom, make unto yourselves friends with the mammon of unrighteousness, and they will not destroy you.
Doctrine and Covenants 82:23     Leave judgment alone with me, for it is mine and I will repay. Peace be with you; my blessings continue with you.
Doctrine and Covenants 82:24     For even yet the kingdom is yours, and shall be forever, if you fall not from your steadfastness. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 83:1     Verily, thus saith the Lord, in addition to the laws of the church concerning women and children, those who belong to the church, who have lost their husbands or fathers:
Doctrine and Covenants 83:2     Women have claim on their husbands for their maintenance, until their husbands are taken; and if they are not found transgressors they shall have fellowship in the church.
Doctrine and Covenants 83:3     And if they are not faithful they shall not have fellowship in the church; yet they may remain upon their inheritances according to the laws of the land.
Doctrine and Covenants 83:4     All children have claim upon their parents for their maintenance until they are of age.
Doctrine and Covenants 83:5     And after that, they have claim upon the church, or in other words upon the Lord's storehouse, if their parents have not wherewith to give them inheritances.
Doctrine and Covenants 83:6     And the storehouse shall be kept by the consecrations of the church; and widows and orphans shall be provided for, as also the poor. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:1     A revelation of Jesus Christ unto his servant Joseph Smith, Jun., and six elders, as they united their hearts and lifted their voices on high.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:2     Yea, the word of the Lord concerning his church, established in the last days for the restoration of his people, as he has spoken by the mouth of his prophets, and for the gathering of his saints to stand upon Mount Zion, which shall be the city of New Jerusalem.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:3     Which city shall be built, beginning at the temple lot, which is appointed by the finger of the Lord, in the western boundaries of the State of Missouri, and dedicated by the hand of Joseph Smith, Jun., and others with whom the Lord was well pleased.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:4     Verily this is the word of the Lord, that the city New Jerusalem shall be built by the gathering of the saints, beginning at this place, even the place of the temple, which temple shall be reared in this generation.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:5     For verily this generation shall not all pass away until an house shall be built unto the Lord, and a cloud shall rest upon it, which cloud shall be even the glory of the Lord, which shall fill the house.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:6     And the sons of Moses, according to the Holy Priesthood which he received under the hand of his father-in-law, Jethro;
Doctrine and Covenants 84:7     And Jethro received it under the hand of Caleb;
Doctrine and Covenants 84:8     And Caleb received it under the hand of Elihu;
Doctrine and Covenants 84:9     And Elihu under the hand of Jeremy;
Doctrine and Covenants 84:10     And Jeremy under the hand of Gad;
Doctrine and Covenants 84:11     And Gad under the hand of Esaias;
Doctrine and Covenants 84:12     And Esaias received it under the hand of God.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:13     Esaias also lived in the days of Abraham, and was blessed of him--
Doctrine and Covenants 84:14     Which Abraham received the priesthood from Melchizedek, who received it through the lineage of his fathers, even till Noah;
Doctrine and Covenants 84:15     And from Noah till Enoch, through the lineage of their fathers;
Doctrine and Covenants 84:16     And from Enoch to Abel, who was slain by the conspiracy of his brother, who received the priesthood by the commandments of God, by the hand of his father Adam, who was the first man--
Doctrine and Covenants 84:17     Which priesthood continueth in the church of God in all generations, and is without beginning of days or end of years.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:18     And the Lord confirmed a priesthood also upon Aaron and his seed, throughout all their generations, which priesthood also continueth and abideth forever with the priesthood which is after the holiest order of God.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:19     And this greater priesthood administereth the gospel and holdeth the key of the mysteries of the kingdom, even the key of the knowledge of God.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:20     Therefore, in the ordinances thereof, the power of godliness is manifest.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:21     And without the ordinances thereof, and the authority of the priesthood, the power of godliness is not manifest unto men in the flesh;
Doctrine and Covenants 84:22     For without this no man can see the face of God, even the Father, and live.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:23     Now this Moses plainly taught to the children of Israel in the wilderness, and sought diligently to sanctify his people that they might behold the face of God;
Doctrine and Covenants 84:24     But they hardened their hearts and could not endure his presence; therefore, the Lord in his wrath, for his anger was kindled against them, swore that they should not enter into his rest while in the wilderness, which rest is the fulness of his glory.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:25     Therefore, he took Moses out of their midst, and the Holy Priesthood also;
Doctrine and Covenants 84:26     And the lesser priesthood continued, which priesthood holdeth the key of the ministering of angels and the preparatory gospel;
Doctrine and Covenants 84:27     Which gospel is the gospel of repentance and of baptism, and the remission of sins, and the law of carnal commandments, which the Lord in his wrath caused to continue with the house of Aaron among the children of Israel until John, whom God raised up, being filled with the Holy Ghost from his mother's womb.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:28     For he was baptized while he was yet in his childhood, and was ordained by the angel of God at the time he was eight days old unto this power, to overthrow the kingdom of the Jews, and to make straight the way of the Lord before the face of his people, to prepare them for the coming of the Lord, in whose hand is given all power.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:29     And again, the offices of elder and bishop are necessary appendages belonging unto the high priesthood.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:30     And again, the offices of teacher and deacon are necessary appendages belonging to the lesser priesthood, which priesthood was confirmed upon Aaron and his sons.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:31     Therefore, as I said concerning the sons of Moses--for the sons of Moses and also the sons of Aaron shall offer an acceptable offering and sacrifice in the house of the Lord, which house shall be built unto the Lord in this generation, upon the consecrated spot as I have appointed--
Doctrine and Covenants 84:32     And the sons of Moses and of Aaron shall be filled with the glory of the Lord, upon Mount Zion in the Lord's house, whose sons are ye; and also many whom I have called and sent forth to build up my church.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:33     For whoso is faithful unto the obtaining these two priesthoods of which I have spoken, and the magnifying their calling, are sanctified by the Spirit unto the renewing of their bodies.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:34     They become the sons of Moses and of Aaron and the seed of Abraham, and the church and kingdom, and the elect of God.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:35     And also all they who receive this priesthood receive me, saith the Lord;
Doctrine and Covenants 84:36     For he that receiveth my servants receiveth me;
Doctrine and Covenants 84:37     And he that receiveth me receiveth my Father;
Doctrine and Covenants 84:38     And he that receiveth my Father receiveth my Father's kingdom; therefore all that my Father hath shall be given unto him.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:39     And this is according to the oath and covenant which belongeth to the priesthood.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:40     Therefore, all those who receive the priesthood, receive this oath and covenant of my Father, which he cannot break, neither can it be moved.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:41     But whoso breaketh this covenant after he hath received it, and altogether turneth therefrom, shall not have forgiveness of sins in this world nor in the world to come.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:42     And wo unto all those who come not unto this priesthood which ye have received, which I now confirm upon you who are present this day, by mine own voice out of the heavens; and even I have given the heavenly hosts and mine angels charge concerning you.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:43     And I now give unto you a commandment to beware concerning yourselves, to give diligent heed to the words of eternal life.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:44     For you shall live by every word that proceedeth forth from the mouth of God.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:45     For the word of the Lord is truth, and whatsoever is truth is light, and whatsoever is light is Spirit, even the Spirit of Jesus Christ.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:46     And the Spirit giveth light to every man that cometh into the world; and the Spirit enlighteneth every man through the world, that hearkeneth to the voice of the Spirit.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:47     And every one that hearkeneth to the voice of the Spirit cometh unto God, even the Father.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:48     And the Father teacheth him of the covenant which he has renewed and confirmed upon you, which is confirmed upon you for your sakes, and not for your sakes only, but for the sake of the whole world.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:49     And the whole world lieth in sin, and groaneth under darkness and under the bondage of sin.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:50     And by this you may know they are under the bondage of sin, because they come not unto me.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:51     For whoso cometh not unto me is under the bondage of sin.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:52     And whoso receiveth not my voice is not acquainted with my voice, and is not of me.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:53     And by this you may know the righteous from the wicked, and that the whole world groaneth under sin and darkness even now.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:54     And your minds in times past have been darkened because of unbelief, and because you have treated lightly the things you have received--
Doctrine and Covenants 84:55     Which vanity and unbelief have brought the whole church under condemnation.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:56     And this condemnation resteth upon the children of Zion, even all.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:57     And they shall remain under this condemnation until they repent and remember the new covenant, even the Book of Mormon and the former commandments which I have given them, not only to say, but to do according to that which I have written--
Doctrine and Covenants 84:58     That they may bring forth fruit meet for their Father's kingdom; otherwise there remaineth a scourge and judgment to be poured out upon the children of Zion.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:59     For shall the children of the kingdom pollute my holy land? Verily, I say unto you, Nay.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:60     Verily, verily, I say unto you who now hear my words, which are my voice, blessed are ye inasmuch as you receive these things;
Doctrine and Covenants 84:61     For I will forgive you of your sins with this commandment--that you remain steadfast in your minds in solemnity and the spirit of prayer, in bearing testimony to all the world of those things which are communicated unto you.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:62     Therefore, go ye into all the world; and unto whatsoever place ye cannot go ye shall send, that the testimony may go from you into all the world unto every creature.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:63     And as I said unto mine apostles, even so I say unto you, for you are mine apostles, even God's high priests; ye are they whom my Father hath given me; ye are my friends;
Doctrine and Covenants 84:64     Therefore, as I said unto mine apostles I say unto you again, that every soul who believeth on your words, and is baptized by water for the remission of sins, shall receive the Holy Ghost.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:65     And these signs shall follow them that believe--
Doctrine and Covenants 84:66     In my name they shall do many wonderful works;
Doctrine and Covenants 84:67     In my name they shall cast out devils;
Doctrine and Covenants 84:68     In my name they shall heal the sick;
Doctrine and Covenants 84:69     In my name they shall open the eyes of the blind, and unstop the ears of the deaf;
Doctrine and Covenants 84:70     And the tongue of the dumb shall speak;
Doctrine and Covenants 84:71     And if any man shall administer poison unto them it shall not hurt them;
Doctrine and Covenants 84:72     And the poison of a serpent shall not have power to harm them.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:73     But a commandment I give unto them, that they shall not boast themselves of these things, neither speak them before the world; for these things are given unto you for your profit and for salvation.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:74     Verily, verily, I say unto you, they who believe not on your words, and are not baptized in water in my name, for the remission of their sins, that they may receive the Holy Ghost, shall be damned, and shall not come into my Father's kingdom where my Father and I am.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:75     And this revelation unto you, and commandment, is in force from this very hour upon all the world, and the gospel is unto all who have not received it.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:76     But, verily I say unto all those to whom the kingdom has been given--from you it must be preached unto them, that they shall repent of their former evil works; for they are to be upbraided for their evil hearts of unbelief, and your brethren in Zion for their rebellion against you at the time I sent you.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:77     And again I say unto you, my friends, for from henceforth I shall call you friends, it is expedient that I give unto you this commandment, that ye become even as my friends in days when I was with them, traveling to preach the gospel in my power;
Doctrine and Covenants 84:78     For I suffered them not to have purse or scrip, neither two coats.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:79     Behold, I send you out to prove the world, and the laborer is worthy of his hire.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:80     And any man that shall go and preach this gospel of the kingdom, and fail not to continue faithful in all things, shall not be weary in mind, neither darkened, neither in body, limb, nor joint; and a hair of his head shall not fall to the ground unnoticed. And they shall not go hungry, neither athirst.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:81     Therefore, take ye no thought for the morrow, for what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink, or wherewithal ye shall be clothed.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:82     For, consider the lilies of the field, how they grow, they toil not, neither do they spin; and the kingdoms of the world, in all their glory, are not arrayed like one of these.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:83     For your Father, who is in heaven, knoweth that you have need of all these things.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:84     Therefore, let the morrow take thought for the things of itself.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:85     Neither take ye thought beforehand what ye shall say; but treasure up in your minds continually the words of life, and it shall be given you in the very hour that portion that shall be meted unto every man.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:86     Therefore, let no man among you, for this commandment is unto all the faithful who are called of God in the church unto the ministry, from this hour take purse or scrip, that goeth forth to proclaim this gospel of the kingdom.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:87     Behold, I send you out to reprove the world of all their unrighteous deeds, and to teach them of a judgment which is to come.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:88     And whoso receiveth you, there I will be also, for I will go before your face. I will be on your right hand and on your left, and my Spirit shall be in your hearts, and mine angels round about you, to bear you up.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:89     Whoso receiveth you receiveth me; and the same will feed you, and clothe you, and give you money.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:90     And he who feeds you, or clothes you, or gives you money, shall in nowise lose his reward.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:91     And he that doeth not these things is not my disciple; by this you may know my disciples.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:92     He that receiveth you not, go away from him alone by yourselves, and cleanse your feet even with water, pure water, whether in heat or in cold, and bear testimony of it unto your Father which is in heaven, and return not again unto that man.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:93     And in whatsoever village or city ye enter, do likewise.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:94     Nevertheless, search diligently and spare not; and wo unto that house, or that village or city that rejecteth you, or your words, or your testimony concerning me.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:95     Wo, I say again, unto that house, or that village or city that rejecteth you, or your words, or your testimony of me;
Doctrine and Covenants 84:96     For I, the Almighty, have laid my hands upon the nations, to scourge them for their wickedness.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:97     And plagues shall go forth, and they shall not be taken from the earth until I have completed my work, which shall be cut short in righteousness--
Doctrine and Covenants 84:98     Until all shall know me, who remain, even from the least unto the greatest, and shall be filled with the knowledge of the Lord, and shall see eye to eye, and shall lift up their voice, and with the voice together sing this new song, saying:
Doctrine and Covenants 84:99     The Lord hath brought again Zion;The Lord hath redeemed his people, Israel,According to the election of grace,Which was brought to pass by the faithAnd covenant of their fathers.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:100     The Lord hath redeemed his people;And Satan is bound and time is no longer.The Lord hath gathered all things in one.The Lord hath brought down Zion from above.The Lord hath brought up Zion from beneath.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:101     The earth hath travailed and brought forth her strength;And truth is established in her bowels;And the heavens have smiled upon her;And she is clothed with the glory of her God;For he stands in the midst of his people.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:102     Glory, and honor, and power, and might,Be ascribed to our God; for he is full of mercy,Justice, grace and truth, and peace,Forever and ever, Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:103     And again, verily, verily, I say unto you, it is expedient that every man who goes forth to proclaim mine everlasting gospel, that inasmuch as they have families, and receive money by gift, that they should send it unto them or make use of it for their benefit, as the Lord shall direct them, for thus it seemeth me good.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:104     And let all those who have not families, who receive money, send it up unto the bishop in Zion, or unto the bishop in Ohio, that it may be consecrated for the bringing forth of the revelations and the printing thereof, and for establishing Zion.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:105     And if any man shall give unto any of you a coat, or a suit, take the old and cast it unto the poor, and go on your way rejoicing.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:106     And if any man among you be strong in the Spirit, let him take with him him that is weak, that he may be edified in all meekness, that he may become strong also.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:107     Therefore, take with you those who are ordained unto the lesser priesthood, and send them before you to make appointments, and to prepare the way, and to fill appointments that you yourselves are not able to fill.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:108     Behold, this is the way that mine apostles, in ancient days, built up my church unto me.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:109     Therefore, let every man stand in his own office, and labor in his own calling; and let not the head say unto the feet it hath no need of the feet; for without the feet how shall the body be able to stand?
Doctrine and Covenants 84:110     Also the body hath need of every member, that all may be edified together, that the system may be kept perfect.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:111     And behold, the high priests should travel, and also the elders, and also the lesser priests; but the deacons and teachers should be appointed to watch over the church, to be standing ministers unto the church.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:112     And the bishop, Newel K. Whitney, also should travel round about and among all the churches, searching after the poor to administer to their wants by humbling the rich and the proud.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:113     He should also employ an agent to take charge and to do his secular business as he shall direct.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:114     Nevertheless, let the bishop go unto the city of New York, also to the city of Albany, and also to the city of Boston, and warn the people of those cities with the sound of the gospel, with a loud voice, of the desolation and utter abolishment which await them if they do reject these things.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:115     For if they do reject these things the hour of their judgment is nigh, and their house shall be left unto them desolate.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:116     Let him trust in me and he shall not be confounded; and a hair of his head shall not fall to the ground unnoticed.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:117     And verily I say unto you, the rest of my servants, go ye forth as your circumstances shall permit, in your several callings, unto the great and notable cities and villages, reproving the world in righteousness of all their unrighteous and ungodly deeds, setting forth clearly and understandingly the desolation of abomination in the last days.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:118     For, with you saith the Lord Almighty, I will rend their kingdoms; I will not only shake the earth, but the starry heavens shall tremble.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:119     For I, the Lord, have put forth my hand to exert the powers of heaven; ye cannot see it now, yet a little while and ye shall see it, and know that I am, and that I will come and reign with my people.
Doctrine and Covenants 84:120     I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 85:1     It is the duty of the Lord's clerk, whom he has appointed, to keep a history, and a general church record of all things that transpire in Zion, and of all those who consecrate properties, and receive inheritances legally from the bishop;
Doctrine and Covenants 85:2     And also their manner of life, their faith, and works; and also of the apostates who apostatize after receiving their inheritances.
Doctrine and Covenants 85:3     It is contrary to the will and commandment of God that those who receive not their inheritance by consecration, agreeable to his law, which he has given, that he may tithe his people, to prepare them against the day of vengeance and burning, should have their names enrolled with the people of God.
Doctrine and Covenants 85:4     Neither is their genealogy to be kept, or to be had where it may be found on any of the records or history of the church.
Doctrine and Covenants 85:5     Their names shall not be found, neither the names of the fathers, nor the names of the children written in the book of the law of God, saith the Lord of Hosts.
Doctrine and Covenants 85:6     Yea, thus saith the still small voice, which whispereth through and pierceth all things, and often times it maketh my bones to quake while it maketh manifest, saying:
Doctrine and Covenants 85:7     And it shall come to pass that I, the Lord God, will send one mighty and strong, holding the scepter of power in his hand, clothed with light for a covering, whose mouth shall utter words, eternal words; while his bowels shall be a fountain of truth, to set in order the house of God, and to arrange by lot the inheritances of the saints whose names are found, and the names of their fathers, and of their children, enrolled in the book of the law of God;
Doctrine and Covenants 85:8     While that man, who was called of God and appointed, that putteth forth his hand to steady the ark of God, shall fall by the shaft of death, like as a tree that is smitten by the vivid shaft of lightning.
Doctrine and Covenants 85:9     And all they who are not found written in the book of remembrance shall find none inheritance in that day, but they shall be cut asunder, and their portion shall be appointed them among unbelievers, where are wailing and gnashing of teeth.
Doctrine and Covenants 85:10     These things I say not of myself; therefore, as the Lord speaketh, he will also fulfil.
Doctrine and Covenants 85:11     And they who are of the High Priesthood, whose names are not found written in the book of the law, or that are found to have apostatized, or to have been cut off from the church, as well as the lesser priesthood, or the members, in that day shall not find an inheritance among the saints of the Most High;
Doctrine and Covenants 85:12     Therefore, it shall be done unto them as unto the children of the priest, as will be found recorded in the second chapter and sixty-first and second verses of Ezra.
Doctrine and Covenants 86:1     Verily, thus saith the Lord unto you my servants, concerning the parable of the wheat and of the tares:
Doctrine and Covenants 86:2     Behold, verily I say, the field was the world, and the apostles were the sowers of the seed;
Doctrine and Covenants 86:3     And after they have fallen asleep the great persecutor of the church, the apostate, the whore, even Babylon, that maketh all nations to drink of her cup, in whose hearts the enemy, even Satan, sitteth to reign--behold he soweth the tares; wherefore, the tares choke the wheat and drive the church into the wilderness.
Doctrine and Covenants 86:4     But behold, in the last days, even now while the Lord is beginning to bring forth the word, and the blade is springing up and is yet tender--
Doctrine and Covenants 86:5     Behold, verily I say unto you, the angels are crying unto the Lord day and night, who are ready and waiting to be sent forth to reap down the fields;
Doctrine and Covenants 86:6     But the Lord saith unto them, pluck not up the tares while the blade is yet tender (for verily your faith is weak), lest you destroy the wheat also.
Doctrine and Covenants 86:7     Therefore, let the wheat and the tares grow together until the harvest is fully ripe; then ye shall first gather out the wheat from among the tares, and after the gathering of the wheat, behold and lo, the tares are bound in bundles, and the field remaineth to be burned.
Doctrine and Covenants 86:8     Therefore, thus saith the Lord unto you, with whom the priesthood hath continued through the lineage of your fathers--
Doctrine and Covenants 86:9     For ye are lawful heirs, according to the flesh, and have been hid from the world with Christ in God--
Doctrine and Covenants 86:10     Therefore your life and the priesthood have remained, and must needs remain through you and your lineage until the restoration of all things spoken by the mouths of all the holy prophets since the world began.
Doctrine and Covenants 86:11     Therefore, blessed are ye if ye continue in my goodness, a light unto the Gentiles, and through this priesthood, a savior unto my people Israel. The Lord hath said it. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 87:1     Verily, thus saith the Lord concerning the wars that will shortly come to pass, beginning at the rebellion of South Carolina, which will eventually terminate in the death and misery of many souls;
Doctrine and Covenants 87:2     And the time will come that war will be poured out upon all nations, beginning at this place.
Doctrine and Covenants 87:3     For behold, the Southern States shall be divided against the Northern States, and the Southern States will call on other nations, even the nation of Great Britain, as it is called, and they shall also call upon other nations, in order to defend themselves against other nations; and then war shall be poured out upon all nations.
Doctrine and Covenants 87:4     And it shall come to pass, after many days, slaves shall rise up against their masters, who shall be marshaled and disciplined for war.
Doctrine and Covenants 87:5     And it shall come to pass also that the remnants who are left of the land will marshal themselves, and shall become exceedingly angry, and shall vex the Gentiles with a sore vexation.
Doctrine and Covenants 87:6     And thus, with the sword and by bloodshed the inhabitants of the earth shall mourn; and with famine, and plague, and earthquake, and the thunder of heaven, and the fierce and vivid lightning also, shall the inhabitants of the earth be made to feel the wrath, and indignation, and chastening hand of an Almighty God, until the consumption decreed hath made a full end of all nations;
Doctrine and Covenants 87:7     That the cry of the saints, and of the blood of the saints, shall cease to come up into the ears of the Lord of Sabaoth, from the earth, to be avenged of their enemies.
Doctrine and Covenants 87:8     Wherefore, stand ye in holy places, and be not moved, until the day of the Lord come; for behold, it cometh quickly, saith the Lord. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:1     Verily, thus saith the Lord unto you who have assembled yourselves together to receive his will concerning you:
Doctrine and Covenants 88:2     Behold, this is pleasing unto your Lord, and the angels rejoice over you; the alms of your prayers have come up into the ears of the Lord of Sabaoth, and are recorded in the book of the names of the sanctified, even them of the celestial world.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:3     Wherefore, I now send upon you another Comforter, even upon you my friends, that it may abide in your hearts, even the Holy Spirit of promise; which other Comforter is the same that I promised unto my disciples, as is recorded in the testimony of John.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:4     This Comforter is the promise which I give unto you of eternal life, even the glory of the celestial kingdom;
Doctrine and Covenants 88:5     Which glory is that of the church of the Firstborn, even of God, the holiest of all, through Jesus Christ his Son--
Doctrine and Covenants 88:6     He that ascended up on high, as also he descended below all things, in that he comprehended all things, that he might be in all and through all things, the light of truth;
Doctrine and Covenants 88:7     Which truth shineth. This is the light of Christ. As also he is in the sun, and the light of the sun, and the power thereof by which it was made.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:8     As also he is in the moon, and is the light of the moon, and the power thereof by which it was made;
Doctrine and Covenants 88:9     As also the light of the stars, and the power thereof by which they were made;
Doctrine and Covenants 88:10     And the earth also, and the power thereof, even the earth upon which you stand.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:11     And the light which shineth, which giveth you light, is through him who enlighteneth your eyes, which is the same light that quickeneth your understandings;
Doctrine and Covenants 88:12     Which light proceedeth forth from the presence of God to fill the immensity of space--
Doctrine and Covenants 88:13     The light which is in all things, which giveth life to all things, which is the law by which all things are governed, even the power of God who sitteth upon his throne, who is in the bosom of eternity, who is in the midst of all things.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:14     Now, verily I say unto you, that through the redemption which is made for you is brought to pass the resurrection from the dead.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:15     And the spirit and the body are the soul of man.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:16     And the resurrection from the dead is the redemption of the soul.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:17     And the redemption of the soul is through him that quickeneth all things, in whose bosom it is decreed that the poor and the meek of the earth shall inherit it.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:18     Therefore, it must needs be sanctified from all unrighteousness, that it may be prepared for the celestial glory;
Doctrine and Covenants 88:19     For after it hath filled the measure of its creation, it shall be crowned with glory, even with the presence of God the Father;
Doctrine and Covenants 88:20     That bodies who are of the celestial kingdom may possess it forever and ever; for, for this intent was it made and created, and for this intent are they sanctified.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:21     And they who are not sanctified through the law which I have given unto you, even the law of Christ, must inherit another kingdom, even that of a terrestrial kingdom, or that of a telestial kingdom.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:22     For he who is not able to abide the law of a celestial kingdom cannot abide a celestial glory.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:23     And he who cannot abide the law of a terrestrial kingdom cannot abide a terrestrial glory.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:24     And he who cannot abide the law of a telestial kingdom cannot abide a telestial glory; therefore he is not meet for a kingdom of glory. Therefore he must abide a kingdom which is not a kingdom of glory.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:25     And again, verily I say unto you, the earth abideth the law of a celestial kingdom, for it filleth the measure of its creation, and transgresseth not the law--
Doctrine and Covenants 88:26     Wherefore, it shall be sanctified; yea, notwithstanding it shall die, it shall be quickened again, and shall abide the power by which it is quickened, and the righteous shall inherit it.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:27     For notwithstanding they die, they also shall rise again, a spiritual body.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:28     They who are of a celestial spirit shall receive the same body which was a natural body; even ye shall receive your bodies, and your glory shall be that glory by which your bodies are quickened.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:29     Ye who are quickened by a portion of the celestial glory shall then receive of the same, even a fulness.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:30     And they who are quickened by a portion of the terrestrial glory shall then receive of the same, even a fulness.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:31     And also they who are quickened by a portion of the telestial glory shall then receive of the same, even a fulness.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:32     And they who remain shall also be quickened; nevertheless, they shall return again to their own place, to enjoy that which they are willing to receive, because they were not willing to enjoy that which they might have received.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:33     For what doth it profit a man if a gift is bestowed upon him, and he receive not the gift? Behold, he rejoices not in that which is given unto him, neither rejoices in him who is the giver of the gift.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:34     And again, verily I say unto you, that which is governed by law is also preserved by law and perfected and sanctified by the same.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:35     That which breaketh a law, and abideth not by law, but seeketh to become a law unto itself, and willeth to abide in sin, and altogether abideth in sin, cannot be sanctified by law, neither by mercy, justice, nor judgment. Therefore, they must remain filthy still.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:36     All kingdoms have a law given;
Doctrine and Covenants 88:37     And there are many kingdoms; for there is no space in the which there is no kingdom; and there is no kingdom in which there is no space, either a greater or a lesser kingdom.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:38     And unto every kingdom is given a law; and unto every law there are certain bounds also and conditions.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:39     All beings who abide not in those conditions are not justified.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:40     For intelligence cleaveth unto intelligence; wisdom receiveth wisdom; truth embraceth truth; virtue loveth virtue; light cleaveth unto light; mercy hath compassion on mercy and claimeth her own; justice continueth its course and claimeth its own; judgment goeth before the face of him who sitteth upon the throne and governeth and executeth all things.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:41     He comprehendeth all things, and all things are before him, and all things are round about him; and he is above all things, and in all things, and is through all things, and is round about all things; and all things are by him, and of him, even God, forever and ever.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:42     And again, verily I say unto you, he hath given a law unto all things, by which they move in their times and their seasons;
Doctrine and Covenants 88:43     And their courses are fixed, even the courses of the heavens and the earth, which comprehend the earth and all the planets.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:44     And they give light to each other in their times and in their seasons, in their minutes, in their hours, in their days, in their weeks, in their months, in their years--all these are one year with God, but not with man.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:45     The earth rolls upon her wings, and the sun giveth his light by day, and the moon giveth her light by night, and the stars also give their light, as they roll upon their wings in their glory, in the midst of the power of God.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:46     Unto what shall I liken these kingdoms, that ye may understand?
Doctrine and Covenants 88:47     Behold, all these are kingdoms, and any man who hath seen any or the least of these hath seen God moving in his majesty and power.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:48     I say unto you, he hath seen him; nevertheless, he who came unto his own was not comprehended.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:49     The light shineth in darkness, and the darkness comprehendeth it not; nevertheless, the day shall come when you shall comprehend even God, being quickened in him and by him.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:50     Then shall ye know that ye have seen me, that I am, and that I am the true light that is in you, and that you are in me; otherwise ye could not abound.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:51     Behold, I will liken these kingdoms unto a man having a field, and he sent forth his servants into the field to dig in the field.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:52     And he said unto the first: Go ye and labor in the field, and in the first hour I will come unto you, and ye shall behold the joy of my countenance.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:53     And he said unto the second: Go ye also into the field, and in the second hour I will visit you with the joy of my countenance.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:54     And also unto the third, saying: I will visit you;
Doctrine and Covenants 88:55     And unto the fourth, and so on unto the twelfth.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:56     And the lord of the field went unto the first in the first hour, and tarried with him all that hour, and he was made glad with the light of the countenance of his lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:57     And then he withdrew from the first that he might visit the second also, and the third, and the fourth, and so on unto the twelfth.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:58     And thus they all received the light of the countenance of their lord, every man in his hour, and in his time, and in his season--
Doctrine and Covenants 88:59     Beginning at the first, and so on unto the last, and from the last unto the first, and from the first unto the last;
Doctrine and Covenants 88:60     Every man in his own order, until his hour was finished, even according as his lord had commanded him, that his lord might be glorified in him, and he in his lord, that they all might be glorified.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:61     Therefore, unto this parable I will liken all these kingdoms, and the inhabitants thereof--every kingdom in its hour, and in its time, and in its season, even according to the decree which God hath made.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:62     And again, verily I say unto you, my friends, I leave these sayings with you to ponder in your hearts, with this commandment which I give unto you, that ye shall call upon me while I am near--
Doctrine and Covenants 88:63     Draw near unto me and I will draw near unto you; seek me diligently and ye shall find me; ask, and ye shall receive; knock, and it shall be opened unto you.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:64     Whatsoever ye ask the Father in my name it shall be given unto you, that is expedient for you;
Doctrine and Covenants 88:65     And if ye ask anything that is not expedient for you, it shall turn unto your condemnation.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:66     Behold, that which you hear is as the voice of one crying in the wilderness--in the wilderness, because you cannot see him--my voice, because my voice is Spirit; my Spirit is truth; truth abideth and hath no end; and if it be in you it shall abound.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:67     And if your eye be single to my glory, your whole bodies shall be filled with light, and there shall be no darkness in you; and that body which is filled with light comprehendeth all things.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:68     Therefore, sanctify yourselves that your minds become single to God, and the days will come that you shall see him; for he will unveil his face unto you, and it shall be in his own time, and in his own way, and according to his own will.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:69     Remember the great and last promise which I have made unto you; cast away your idle thoughts and your excess of laughter far from you.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:70     Tarry ye, tarry ye in this place, and call a solemn assembly, even of those who are the first laborers in this last kingdom.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:71     And let those whom they have warned in their traveling call on the Lord, and ponder the warning in their hearts which they have received, for a little season.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:72     Behold, and lo, I will take care of your flocks, and will raise up elders and send unto them.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:73     Behold, I will hasten my work in its time.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:74     And I give unto you, who are the first laborers in this last kingdom, a commandment that you assemble yourselves together, and organize yourselves, and prepare yourselves, and sanctify yourselves; yea, purify your hearts, and cleanse your hands and your feet before me, that I may make you clean;
Doctrine and Covenants 88:75     That I may testify unto your Father, and your God, and my God, that you are clean from the blood of this wicked generation; that I may fulfil this promise, this great and last promise, which I have made unto you, when I will.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:76     Also, I give unto you a commandment that ye shall continue in prayer and fasting from this time forth.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:77     And I give unto you a commandment that you shall teach one another the doctrine of the kingdom.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:78     Teach ye diligently and my grace shall attend you, that you may be instructed more perfectly in theory, in principle, in doctrine, in the law of the gospel, in all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God, that are expedient for you to understand;
Doctrine and Covenants 88:79     Of things both in heaven and in the earth, and under the earth; things which have been, things which are, things which must shortly come to pass; things which are at home, things which are abroad; the wars and the perplexities of the nations, and the judgments which are on the land; and a knowledge also of countries and of kingdoms--
Doctrine and Covenants 88:80     That ye may be prepared in all things when I shall send you again to magnify the calling whereunto I have called you, and the mission with which I have commissioned you.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:81     Behold, I sent you out to testify and warn the people, and it becometh every man who hath been warned to warn his neighbor.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:82     Therefore, they are left without excuse, and their sins are upon their own heads.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:83     He that seeketh me early shall find me, and shall not be forsaken.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:84     Therefore, tarry ye, and labor diligently, that you may be perfected in your ministry to go forth among the Gentiles for the last time, as many as the mouth of the Lord shall name, to bind up the law and seal up the testimony, and to prepare the saints for the hour of judgment which is to come;
Doctrine and Covenants 88:85     That their souls may escape the wrath of God, the desolation of abomination which awaits the wicked, both in this world and in the world to come. Verily, I say unto you, let those who are not the first elders continue in the vineyard until the mouth of the Lord shall call them, for their time is not yet come; their garments are not clean from the blood of this generation.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:86     Abide ye in the liberty wherewith ye are made free; entangle not yourselves in sin, but let your hands be clean, until the Lord comes.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:87     For not many days hence and the earth shall tremble and reel to and fro as a drunken man; and the sun shall hide his face, and shall refuse to give light; and the moon shall be bathed in blood; and the stars shall become exceedingly angry, and shall cast themselves down as a fig that falleth from off a fig tree.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:88     And after your testimony cometh wrath and indignation upon the people.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:89     For after your testimony cometh the testimony of earthquakes, that shall cause groanings in the midst of her, and men shall fall upon the ground and shall not be able to stand.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:90     And also cometh the testimony of the voice of thunderings, and the voice of lightnings, and the voice of tempests, and the voice of the waves of the sea heaving themselves beyond their bounds.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:91     And all things shall be in commotion; and surely, men's hearts shall fail them; for fear shall come upon all people.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:92     And angels shall fly through the midst of heaven, crying with a loud voice, sounding the trump of God, saying: Prepare ye, prepare ye, O inhabitants of the earth; for the judgment of our God is come. Behold, and lo, the Bridegroom cometh; go ye out to meet him.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:93     And immediately there shall appear a great sign in heaven, and all people shall see it together.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:94     And another angel shall sound his trump, saying: That great church, the mother of abominations, that made all nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication, that persecuteth the saints of God, that shed their blood--she who sitteth upon many waters, and upon the islands of the sea--behold, she is the tares of the earth; she is bound in bundles; her bands are made strong, no man can loose them; therefore, she is ready to be burned. And he shall sound his trump both long and loud, and all nations shall hear it.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:95     And there shall be silence in heaven for the space of half an hour; and immediately after shall the curtain of heaven be unfolded, as a scroll is unfolded after it is rolled up, and the face of the Lord shall be unveiled;
Doctrine and Covenants 88:96     And the saints that are upon the earth, who are alive, shall be quickened and be caught up to meet him.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:97     And they who have slept in their graves shall come forth, for their graves shall be opened; and they also shall be caught up to meet him in the midst of the pillar of heaven--
Doctrine and Covenants 88:98     They are Christ's, the first fruits, they who shall descend with him first, and they who are on the earth and in their graves, who are first caught up to meet him; and all this by the voice of the sounding of the trump of the angel of God.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:99     And after this another angel shall sound, which is the second trump; and then cometh the redemption of those who are Christ's at his coming; who have received their part in that prison which is prepared for them, that they might receive the gospel, and be judged according to men in the flesh.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:100     And again, another trump shall sound, which is the third trump; and then come the spirits of men who are to be judged, and are found under condemnation;
Doctrine and Covenants 88:101     And these are the rest of the dead; and they live not again until the thousand years are ended, neither again, until the end of the earth.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:102     And another trump shall sound, which is the fourth trump, saying: There are found among those who are to remain until that great and last day, even the end, who shall remain filthy still.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:103     And another trump shall sound, which is the fifth trump, which is the fifth angel who committeth the everlasting gospel--flying through the midst of heaven, unto all nations, kindreds, tongues, and people;
Doctrine and Covenants 88:104     And this shall be the sound of his trump, saying to all people, both in heaven and in earth, and that are under the earth--for every ear shall hear it, and every knee shall bow, and every tongue shall confess, while they hear the sound of the trump, saying: Fear God, and give glory to him who sitteth upon the throne, forever and ever; for the hour of his judgment is come.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:105     And again, another angel shall sound his trump, which is the sixth angel, saying: She is fallen who made all nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication; she is fallen, is fallen!
Doctrine and Covenants 88:106     And again, another angel shall sound his trump, which is the seventh angel, saying: It is finished; it is finished! The Lamb of God hath overcome and trodden the wine-press alone, even the wine-press of the fierceness of the wrath of Almighty God.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:107     And then shall the angels be crowned with the glory of his might, and the saints shall be filled with his glory, and receive their inheritance and be made equal with him.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:108     And then shall the first angel again sound his trump in the ears of all living, and reveal the secret acts of men, and the mighty works of God in the first thousand years.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:109     And then shall the second angel sound his trump, and reveal the secret acts of men, and the thoughts and intents of their hearts, and the mighty works of God in the second thousand years--
Doctrine and Covenants 88:110     And so on, until the seventh angel shall sound his trump; and he shall stand forth upon the land and upon the sea, and swear in the name of him who sitteth upon the throne, that there shall be time no longer; and Satan shall be bound, that old serpent, who is called the devil, and shall not be loosed for the space of a thousand years.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:111     And then he shall be loosed for a little season, that he may gather together his armies.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:112     And Michael, the seventh angel, even the archangel, shall gather together his armies, even the hosts of heaven.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:113     And the devil shall gather together his armies; even the hosts of hell, and shall come up to battle against Michael and his armies.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:114     And then cometh the battle of the great God; and the devil and his armies shall be cast away into their own place, that they shall not have power over the saints any more at all.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:115     For Michael shall fight their battles, and shall overcome him who seeketh the throne of him who sitteth upon the throne, even the Lamb.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:116     This is the glory of God, and the sanctified; and they shall not any more see death.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:117     Therefore, verily I say unto you, my friends, call your solemn assembly, as I have commanded you.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:118     And as all have not faith, seek ye diligently and teach one another words of wisdom; yea, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study and also by faith.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:119     Organize yourselves; prepare every needful thing; and establish a house, even a house of prayer, a house of fasting, a house of faith, a house of learning, a house of glory, a house of order, a house of God;
Doctrine and Covenants 88:120     That your incomings may be in the name of the Lord; that your outgoings may be in the name of the Lord; that all your salutations may be in the name of the Lord, with uplifted hands unto the Most High.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:121     Therefore, cease from all your light speeches, from all laughter, from all your lustful desires, from all your pride and light-mindedness, and from all your wicked doings.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:122     Appoint among yourselves a teacher, and let not all be spokesmen at once; but let one speak at a time and let all listen unto his sayings, that when all have spoken that all may be edified of all, and that every man may have an equal privilege.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:123     See that ye love one another; cease to be covetous; learn to impart one to another as the gospel requires.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:124     Cease to be idle; cease to be unclean; cease to find fault one with another; cease to sleep longer than is needful; retire to thy bed early, that ye may not be weary; arise early, that your bodies and your minds may be invigorated.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:125     And above all things, clothe yourselves with the bond of charity, as with a mantle, which is the bond of perfectness and peace.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:126     Pray always, that ye may not faint, until I come. Behold, and lo, I will come quickly, and receive you unto myself. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:127     And again, the order of the house prepared for the presidency of the school of the prophets, established for their instruction in all things that are expedient for them, even for all the officers of the church, or in other words, those who are called to the ministry in the church, beginning at the high priests, even down to the deacons--
Doctrine and Covenants 88:128     And this shall be the order of the house of the presidency of the school: He that is appointed to be president, or teacher, shall be found standing in his place, in the house which shall be prepared for him.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:129     Therefore, he shall be first in the house of God, in a place that the congregation in the house may hear his words carefully and distinctly, not with loud speech.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:130     And when he cometh into the house of God, for he should be first in the house--behold, this is beautiful, that he may be an example--
Doctrine and Covenants 88:131     Let him offer himself in prayer upon his knees before God, in token or remembrance of the everlasting covenant.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:132     And when any shall come in after him, let the teacher arise, and, with uplifted hands to heaven, yea, even directly, salute his brother or brethren with these words:
Doctrine and Covenants 88:133     Art thou a brother or brethren? I salute you in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, in token or remembrance of the everlasting covenant, in which covenant I receive you to fellowship, in a determination that is fixed, immovable, and unchangeable, to be your friend and brother through the grace of God in the bonds of love, to walk in all the commandments of God blameless, in thanksgiving, forever and ever. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:134     And he that is found unworthy of this salutation shall not have place among you; for ye shall not suffer that mine house shall be polluted by him.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:135     And he that cometh in and is faithful before me, and is a brother, or if they be brethren, they shall salute the president or teacher with uplifted hands to heaven, with this same prayer and covenant, or by saying Amen, in token of the same.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:136     Behold, verily, I say unto you, this is an ensample unto you for a salutation to one another in the house of God, in the school of the prophets.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:137     And ye are called to do this by prayer and thanksgiving, as the Spirit shall give utterance in all your doings in the house of the Lord, in the school of the prophets, that it may become a sanctuary, a tabernacle of the Holy Spirit to your edification.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:138     And ye shall not receive any among you into this school save he is clean from the blood of this generation;
Doctrine and Covenants 88:139     And he shall be received by the ordinance of the washing of feet, for unto this end was the ordinance of the washing of feet instituted.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:140     And again, the ordinance of washing feet is to be administered by the president, or presiding elder of the church.
Doctrine and Covenants 88:141     It is to be commenced with prayer; and after partaking of bread and wine, he is to gird himself according to the pattern given in the thirteenth chapter of John's testimony concerning me. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 89:1     A Word of Wisdom, for the benefit of the council of high priests, assembled in Kirtland, and the church, and also the saints in Zion--
Doctrine and Covenants 89:2     To be sent greeting; not by commandment or constraint, but by revelation and the word of wisdom, showing forth the order and will of God in the temporal salvation of all saints in the last days--
Doctrine and Covenants 89:3     Given for a principle with promise, adapted to the capacity of the weak and the weakest of all saints, who are or can be called saints.
Doctrine and Covenants 89:4     Behold, verily, thus saith the Lord unto you: In consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days, I have warned you, and forewarn you, by giving unto you this word of wisdom by revelation--
Doctrine and Covenants 89:5     That inasmuch as any man drinketh wine or strong drink among you, behold it is not good, neither meet in the sight of your Father, only in assembling yourselves together to offer up your sacraments before him.
Doctrine and Covenants 89:6     And, behold, this should be wine, yea, pure wine of the grape of the vine, of your own make.
Doctrine and Covenants 89:7     And, again, strong drinks are not for the belly, but for the washing of your bodies.
Doctrine and Covenants 89:8     And again, tobacco is not for the body, neither for the belly, and is not good for man, but is an herb for bruises and all sick cattle, to be used with judgment and skill.
Doctrine and Covenants 89:9     And again, hot drinks are not for the body or belly.
Doctrine and Covenants 89:10     And again, verily I say unto you, all wholesome herbs God hath ordained for the constitution, nature, and use of man--
Doctrine and Covenants 89:11     Every herb in the season thereof, and every fruit in the season thereof; all these to be used with prudence and thanksgiving.
Doctrine and Covenants 89:12     Yea, flesh also of beasts and of the fowls of the air, I, the Lord, have ordained for the use of man with thanksgiving; nevertheless they are to be used sparingly;
Doctrine and Covenants 89:13     And it is pleasing unto me that they should not be used, only in times of winter, or of cold, or famine.
Doctrine and Covenants 89:14     All grain is ordained for the use of man and of beasts, to be the staff of life, not only for man but for the beasts of the field, and the fowls of heaven, and all wild animals that run or creep on the earth;
Doctrine and Covenants 89:15     And these hath God made for the use of man only in times of famine and excess of hunger.
Doctrine and Covenants 89:16     All grain is good for the food of man; as also the fruit of the vine; that which yieldeth fruit, whether in the ground or above the ground--
Doctrine and Covenants 89:17     Nevertheless, wheat for man, and corn for the ox, and oats for the horse, and rye for the fowls and for swine, and for all beasts of the field, and barley for all useful animals, and for mild drinks, as also other grain.
Doctrine and Covenants 89:18     And all saints who remember to keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in their navel and marrow to their bones;
Doctrine and Covenants 89:19     And shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures;
Doctrine and Covenants 89:20     And shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint.
Doctrine and Covenants 89:21     And I, the Lord, give unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall pass by them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 90:1     Thus saith the Lord, verily, verily I say unto you my son, thy sins are forgiven thee, according to thy petition, for thy prayers and the prayers of thy brethren have come up into my ears.
Doctrine and Covenants 90:2     Therefore, thou art blessed from henceforth that bear the keys of the kingdom given unto you; which kingdom is coming forth for the last time.
Doctrine and Covenants 90:3     Verily I say unto you, the keys of this kingdom shall never be taken from you, while thou art in the world, neither in the world to come;
Doctrine and Covenants 90:4     Nevertheless, through you shall the oracles be given to another, yea, even unto the church.
Doctrine and Covenants 90:5     And all they who receive the oracles of God, let them beware how they hold them lest they are accounted as a light thing, and are brought under condemnation thereby, and stumble and fall when the storms descend, and the winds blow, and the rains descend, and beat upon their house.
Doctrine and Covenants 90:6     And again, verily I say unto thy brethren, Sidney Rigdon and Frederick G. Williams, their sins are forgiven them also, and they are accounted as equal with thee in holding the keys of this last kingdom;
Doctrine and Covenants 90:7     As also through your administration the keys of the school of the prophets, which I have commanded to be organized;
Doctrine and Covenants 90:8     That thereby they may be perfected in their ministry for the salvation of Zion, and of the nations of Israel, and of the Gentiles, as many as will believe;
Doctrine and Covenants 90:9     That through your administration they may receive the word, and through their administration the word may go forth unto the ends of the earth, unto the Gentiles first, and then, behold, and lo, they shall turn unto the Jews.
Doctrine and Covenants 90:10     And then cometh the day when the arm of the Lord shall be revealed in power in convincing the nations, the heathen nations, the house of Joseph, of the gospel of their salvation.
Doctrine and Covenants 90:11     For it shall come to pass in that day, that every man shall hear the fulness of the gospel in his own tongue, and in his own language, through those who are ordained unto this power, by the administration of the Comforter, shed forth upon them for the revelation of Jesus Christ.
Doctrine and Covenants 90:12     And now, verily I say unto you, I give unto you a commandment that you continue in the ministry and presidency.
Doctrine and Covenants 90:13     And when you have finished the translation of the prophets, you shall from thenceforth preside over the affairs of the church and the school;
Doctrine and Covenants 90:14     And from time to time, as shall be manifested by the Comforter, receive revelations to unfold the mysteries of the kingdom;
Doctrine and Covenants 90:15     And set in order the churches, and study and learn, and become acquainted with all good books, and with languages, tongues, and people.
Doctrine and Covenants 90:16     And this shall be your business and mission in all your lives, to preside in council, and set in order all the affairs of this church and kingdom.
Doctrine and Covenants 90:17     Be not ashamed, neither confounded; but be admonished in all your high-mindedness and pride, for it bringeth a snare upon your souls.
Doctrine and Covenants 90:18     Set in order your houses; keep slothfulness and uncleanness far from you.
Doctrine and Covenants 90:19     Now, verily I say unto you, let there be a place provided, as soon as it is possible, for the family of thy counselor and scribe, even Frederick G. Williams.
Doctrine and Covenants 90:20     And let mine aged servant, Joseph Smith, Sen., continue with his family upon the place where he now lives; and let it not be sold until the mouth of the Lord shall name.
Doctrine and Covenants 90:21     And let my counselor, even Sidney Rigdon, remain where he now resides until the mouth of the Lord shall name.
Doctrine and Covenants 90:22     And let the bishop search diligently to obtain an agent, and let him be a man who has got riches in store--a man of God, and of strong faith--
Doctrine and Covenants 90:23     That thereby he may be enabled to discharge every debt; that the storehouse of the Lord may not be brought into disrepute before the eyes of the people.
Doctrine and Covenants 90:24     Search diligently, pray always, and be believing, and all things shall work together for your good, if ye walk uprightly and remember the covenant wherewith ye have covenanted one with another.
Doctrine and Covenants 90:25     Let your families be small, especially mine aged servant Joseph Smith's, Sen., as pertaining to those who do not belong to your families;
Doctrine and Covenants 90:26     That those things that are provided for you, to bring to pass my work, be not taken from you and given to those that are not worthy--
Doctrine and Covenants 90:27     And thereby you be hindered in accomplishing those things which I have commanded you.
Doctrine and Covenants 90:28     And again, verily I say unto you, it is my will that my handmaid Vienna Jaques should receive money to bear her expenses, and go up unto the land of Zion;
Doctrine and Covenants 90:29     And the residue of the money may be consecrated unto me, and she be rewarded in mine own due time.
Doctrine and Covenants 90:30     Verily I say unto you, that it is meet in mine eyes that she should go up unto the land of Zion, and receive an inheritance from the hand of the bishop;
Doctrine and Covenants 90:31     That she may settle down in peace inasmuch as she is faithful, and not be idle in her days from thenceforth.
Doctrine and Covenants 90:32     And behold, verily I say unto you, that ye shall write this commandment, and say unto your brethren in Zion, in love greeting, that I have called you also to preside over Zion in mine own due time.
Doctrine and Covenants 90:33     Therefore, let them cease wearying me concerning this matter.
Doctrine and Covenants 90:34     Behold, I say unto you that your brethren in Zion begin to repent, and the angels rejoice over them.
Doctrine and Covenants 90:35     Nevertheless, I am not well pleased with many things; and I am not well pleased with my servant William E. McLellin, neither with my servant Sidney Gilbert; and the bishop also, and others have many things to repent of.
Doctrine and Covenants 90:36     But verily I say unto you, that I, the Lord, will contend with Zion, and plead with her strong ones, and chasten her until she overcomes and is clean before me.
Doctrine and Covenants 90:37     For she shall not be removed out of her place. I, the Lord, have spoken it. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 91:1     Verily, thus saith the Lord unto you concerning the Apocrypha--There are many things contained therein that are true, and it is mostly translated correctly;
Doctrine and Covenants 91:2     There are many things contained therein that are not true, which are interpolations by the hands of men.
Doctrine and Covenants 91:3     Verily, I say unto you, that it is not needful that the Apocrypha should be translated.
Doctrine and Covenants 91:4     Therefore, whoso readeth it, let him understand, for the Spirit manifesteth truth;
Doctrine and Covenants 91:5     And whoso is enlightened by the Spirit shall obtain benefit therefrom;
Doctrine and Covenants 91:6     And whoso receiveth not by the Spirit, cannot be benefited. Therefore it is not needful that it should be translated. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 92:1     Verily, thus saith the Lord, I give unto the united order, organized agreeable to the commandment previously given, a revelation and commandment concerning my servant Frederick G. Williams, that ye shall receive him into the order. What I say unto one I say unto all.
Doctrine and Covenants 92:2     And again, I say unto you my servant Frederick G. Williams, you shall be a lively member in this order; and inasmuch as you are faithful in keeping all former commandments you shall be blessed forever. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 93:1     Verily, thus saith the Lord: It shall come to pass that every soul who forsaketh his sins and cometh unto me, and calleth on my name, and obeyeth my voice, and keepeth my commandments, shall see my face and know that I am;
Doctrine and Covenants 93:2     And that I am the true light that lighteth every man that cometh into the world;
Doctrine and Covenants 93:3     And that I am in the Father, and the Father in me, and the Father and I are one--
Doctrine and Covenants 93:4     The Father because he gave me of his fulness, and the Son because I was in the world and made flesh my tabernacle, and dwelt among the sons of men.
Doctrine and Covenants 93:5     I was in the world and received of my Father, and the works of him were plainly manifest.
Doctrine and Covenants 93:6     And John saw and bore record of the fulness of my glory, and the fulness of John's record is hereafter to be revealed.
Doctrine and Covenants 93:7     And he bore record, saying: I saw his glory, that he was in the beginning, before the world was;
Doctrine and Covenants 93:8     Therefore, in the beginning the Word was, for he was the Word, even the messenger of salvation--
Doctrine and Covenants 93:9     The light and the Redeemer of the world; the Spirit of truth, who came into the world, because the world was made by him, and in him was the life of men and the light of men.
Doctrine and Covenants 93:10     The worlds were made by him; men were made by him; all things were made by him, and through him, and of him.
Doctrine and Covenants 93:11     And I, John, bear record that I beheld his glory, as the glory of the Only Begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth, even the Spirit of truth, which came and dwelt in the flesh, and dwelt among us.
Doctrine and Covenants 93:12     And I, John, saw that he received not of the fulness at the first, but received grace for grace;
Doctrine and Covenants 93:13     And he received not of the fulness at first, but continued from grace to grace, until he received a fulness;
Doctrine and Covenants 93:14     And thus he was called the Son of God, because he received not of the fulness at the first.
Doctrine and Covenants 93:15     And I, John, bear record, and lo, the heavens were opened, and the Holy Ghost descended upon him in the form of a dove, and sat upon him, and there came a voice out of heaven saying: This is my beloved Son.
Doctrine and Covenants 93:16     And I, John, bear record that he received a fulness of the glory of the Father;
Doctrine and Covenants 93:17     And he received all power, both in heaven and on earth, and the glory of the Father was with him, for he dwelt in him.
Doctrine and Covenants 93:18     And it shall come to pass, that if you are faithful you shall receive the fulness of the record of John.
Doctrine and Covenants 93:19     I give unto you these sayings that you may understand and know how to worship, and know what you worship, that you may come unto the Father in my name, and in due time receive of his fulness.
Doctrine and Covenants 93:20     For if you keep my commandments you shall receive of his fulness, and be glorified in me as I am in the Father; therefore, I say unto you, you shall receive grace for grace.
Doctrine and Covenants 93:21     And now, verily I say unto you, I was in the beginning with the Father, and am the Firstborn;
Doctrine and Covenants 93:22     And all those who are begotten through me are partakers of the glory of the same, and are the church of the Firstborn.
Doctrine and Covenants 93:23     Ye were also in the beginning with the Father; that which is Spirit, even the Spirit of truth;
Doctrine and Covenants 93:24     And truth is knowledge of things as they are, and as they were, and as they are to come;
Doctrine and Covenants 93:25     And whatsoever is more or less than this is the spirit of that wicked one who was a liar from the beginning.
Doctrine and Covenants 93:26     The Spirit of truth is of God. I am the Spirit of truth, and John bore record of me, saying: He received a fulness of truth, yea, even of all truth;
Doctrine and Covenants 93:27     And no man receiveth a fulness unless he keepeth his commandments.
Doctrine and Covenants 93:28     He that keepeth his commandments receiveth truth and light, until he is glorified in truth and knoweth all things.
Doctrine and Covenants 93:29     Man was also in the beginning with God. Intelligence, or the light of truth, was not created or made, neither indeed can be.
Doctrine and Covenants 93:30     All truth is independent in that sphere in which God has placed it, to act for itself, as all intelligence also; otherwise there is no existence.
Doctrine and Covenants 93:31     Behold, here is the agency of man, and here is the condemnation of man; because that which was from the beginning is plainly manifest unto them, and they receive not the light.
Doctrine and Covenants 93:32     And every man whose spirit receiveth not the light is under condemnation.
Doctrine and Covenants 93:33     For man is spirit. The elements are eternal, and spirit and element, inseparably connected, receive a fulness of joy;
Doctrine and Covenants 93:34     And when separated, man cannot receive a fulness of joy.
Doctrine and Covenants 93:35     The elements are the tabernacle of God; yea, man is the tabernacle of God, even temples; and whatsoever temple is defiled, God shall destroy that temple.
Doctrine and Covenants 93:36     The glory of God is intelligence, or, in other words, light and truth.
Doctrine and Covenants 93:37     Light and truth forsake that evil one.
Doctrine and Covenants 93:38     Every spirit of man was innocent in the beginning; and God having redeemed man from the fall, men became again, in their infant state, innocent before God.
Doctrine and Covenants 93:39     And that wicked one cometh and taketh away light and truth, through disobedience, from the children of men, and because of the tradition of their fathers.
Doctrine and Covenants 93:40     But I have commanded you to bring up your children in light and truth.
Doctrine and Covenants 93:41     But verily I say unto you, my servant Frederick G. Williams, you have continued under this condemnation;
Doctrine and Covenants 93:42     You have not taught your children light and truth, according to the commandments; and that wicked one hath power, as yet, over you, and this is the cause of your affliction.
Doctrine and Covenants 93:43     And now a commandment I give unto you--if you will be delivered you shall set in order your own house, for there are many things that are not right in your house.
Doctrine and Covenants 93:44     Verily, I say unto my servant Sidney Rigdon, that in some things he hath not kept the commandments concerning his children; therefore, first set in order thy house.
Doctrine and Covenants 93:45     Verily, I say unto my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., or in other words, I will call you friends, for you are my friends, and ye shall have an inheritance with me--
Doctrine and Covenants 93:46     I called you servants for the world's sake, and ye are their servants for my sake--
Doctrine and Covenants 93:47     And now, verily I say unto Joseph Smith, Jun.--You have not kept the commandments, and must needs stand rebuked before the Lord;
Doctrine and Covenants 93:48     Your family must needs repent and forsake some things, and give more earnest heed unto your sayings, or be removed out of their place.
Doctrine and Covenants 93:49     What I say unto one I say unto all; pray always lest that wicked one have power in you, and remove you out of your place.
Doctrine and Covenants 93:50     My servant Newel K. Whitney also, a bishop of my church, hath need to be chastened, and set in order his family, and see that they are more diligent and concerned at home, and pray always, or they shall be removed out of their place.
Doctrine and Covenants 93:51     Now, I say unto you, my friends, let my servant Sidney Rigdon go on his journey, and make haste, and also proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord, and the gospel of salvation, as I shall give him utterance; and by your prayer of faith with one consent I will uphold him.
Doctrine and Covenants 93:52     And let my servants Joseph Smith, Jun., and Frederick G. Williams make haste also, and it shall be given them even according to the prayer of faith; and inasmuch as you keep my sayings you shall not be confounded in this world, nor in the world to come.
Doctrine and Covenants 93:53     And, verily I say unto you, that it is my will that you should hasten to translate my scriptures, and to obtain a knowledge of history, and of countries, and of kingdoms, of laws of God and man, and all this for the salvation of Zion. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 94:1     And again, verily I say unto you, my friends, a commandment I give unto you, that ye shall commence a work of laying out and preparing a beginning and foundation of the city of the stake of Zion, here in the land of Kirtland, beginning at my house.
Doctrine and Covenants 94:2     And behold, it must be done according to the pattern which I have given unto you.
Doctrine and Covenants 94:3     And let the first lot on the south be consecrated unto me for the building of a house for the presidency, for the work of the presidency, in obtaining revelations; and for the work of the ministry of the presidency, in all things pertaining to the church and kingdom.
Doctrine and Covenants 94:4     Verily I say unto you, that it shall be built fifty-five by sixty-five feet in the width thereof and in the length thereof, in the inner court.
Doctrine and Covenants 94:5     And there shall be a lower court and a higher court, according to the pattern which shall be given unto you hereafter.
Doctrine and Covenants 94:6     And it shall be dedicated unto the Lord from the foundation thereof, according to the order of the priesthood, according to the pattern which shall be given unto you hereafter.
Doctrine and Covenants 94:7     And it shall be wholly dedicated unto the Lord for the work of the presidency.
Doctrine and Covenants 94:8     And ye shall not suffer any unclean thing to come in unto it; and my glory shall be there, and my presence shall be there.
Doctrine and Covenants 94:9     But if there shall come into it any unclean thing, my glory shall not be there; and my presence shall not come into it.
Doctrine and Covenants 94:10     And again, verily I say unto you, the second lot on the south shall be dedicated unto me for the building of a house unto me, for the work of the printing of the translation of my scriptures, and all things whatsoever I shall command you.
Doctrine and Covenants 94:11     And it shall be fifty-five by sixty-five feet in the width thereof and the length thereof, in the inner court; and there shall be a lower and a higher court.
Doctrine and Covenants 94:12     And this house shall be wholly dedicated unto the Lord from the foundation thereof, for the work of the printing, in all things whatsoever I shall command you, to be holy, undefiled, according to the pattern in all things as it shall be given unto you.
Doctrine and Covenants 94:13     And on the third lot shall my servant Hyrum Smith receive his inheritance.
Doctrine and Covenants 94:14     And on the first and second lots on the north shall my servants Reynolds Cahoon and Jared Carter receive their inheritances--
Doctrine and Covenants 94:15     That they may do the work which I have appointed unto them, to be a committee to build mine houses, according to the commandment, which I, the Lord God, have given unto you.
Doctrine and Covenants 94:16     These two houses are not to be built until I give unto you a commandment concerning them.
Doctrine and Covenants 94:17     And now I give unto you no more at this time. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 95:1     Verily, thus saith the Lord unto you whom I love, and whom I love I also chasten that their sins may be forgiven, for with the chastisement I prepare a way for their deliverance in all things out of temptation, and I have loved you--
Doctrine and Covenants 95:2     Wherefore, ye must needs be chastened and stand rebuked before my face;
Doctrine and Covenants 95:3     For ye have sinned against me a very grievous sin, in that ye have not considered the great commandment in all things, that I have given unto you concerning the building of mine house;
Doctrine and Covenants 95:4     For the preparation wherewith I design to prepare mine apostles to prune my vineyard for the last time, that I may bring to pass my strange act, that I may pour out my Spirit upon all flesh--
Doctrine and Covenants 95:5     But behold, verily I say unto you, that there are many who have been ordained among you, whom I have called but few of them are chosen.
Doctrine and Covenants 95:6     They who are not chosen have sinned a very grievous sin, in that they are walking in darkness at noon-day.
Doctrine and Covenants 95:7     And for this cause I gave unto you a commandment that you should call your solemn assembly, that your fastings and your mourning might come up into the ears of the Lord of Sabaoth, which is by interpretation, the creator of the first day, the beginning and the end.
Doctrine and Covenants 95:8     Yea, verily I say unto you, I gave unto you a commandment that you should build a house, in the which house I design to endow those whom I have chosen with power from on high;
Doctrine and Covenants 95:9     For this is the promise of the Father unto you; therefore I command you to tarry, even as mine apostles at Jerusalem.
Doctrine and Covenants 95:10     Nevertheless, my servants sinned a very grievous sin; and contentions arose in the school of the prophets; which was very grievous unto me, saith your Lord; therefore I sent them forth to be chastened.
Doctrine and Covenants 95:11     Verily I say unto you, it is my will that you should build a house. If you keep my commandments you shall have power to build it.
Doctrine and Covenants 95:12     If you keep not my commandments, the love of the Father shall not continue with you, therefore you shall walk in darkness.
Doctrine and Covenants 95:13     Now here is wisdom, and the mind of the Lord--let the house be built, not after the manner of the world, for I give not unto you that ye shall live after the manner of the world;
Doctrine and Covenants 95:14     Therefore, let it be built after the manner which I shall show unto three of you, whom ye shall appoint and ordain unto this power.
Doctrine and Covenants 95:15     And the size thereof shall be fifty and five feet in width, and let it be sixty-five feet in length, in the inner court thereof.
Doctrine and Covenants 95:16     And let the lower part of the inner court be dedicated unto me for your sacrament offering, and for your preaching, and your fasting, and your praying, and the offering up of your most holy desires unto me, saith your Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 95:17     And let the higher part of the inner court be dedicated unto me for the school of mine apostles, saith Son Ahman; or, in other words, Alphus; or, in other words, Omegus; even Jesus Christ your Lord. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 96:1     Behold, I say unto you, here is wisdom, whereby ye may know how to act concerning this matter, for it is expedient in me that this stake that I have set for the strength of Zion should be made strong.
Doctrine and Covenants 96:2     Therefore, let my servant Newel K. Whitney take charge of the place which is named among you, upon which I design to build mine holy house.
Doctrine and Covenants 96:3     And again, let it be divided into lots, according to wisdom, for the benefit of those who seek inheritances, as it shall be determined in council among you.
Doctrine and Covenants 96:4     Therefore, take heed that ye see to this matter, and that portion that is necessary to benefit mine order, for the purpose of bringing forth my word to the children of men.
Doctrine and Covenants 96:5     For behold, verily I say unto you, this is the most expedient in me, that my word should go forth unto the children of men, for the purpose of subduing the hearts of the children of men for your good. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 96:6     And again, verily I say unto you, it is wisdom and expedient in me, that my servant John Johnson whose offering I have accepted, and whose prayers I have heard, unto whom I give a promise of eternal life inasmuch as he keepeth my commandments from henceforth--
Doctrine and Covenants 96:7     For he is a descendant of Joseph and a partaker of the blessings of the promise made unto his fathers--
Doctrine and Covenants 96:8     Verily I say unto you, it is expedient in me that he should become a member of the order, that he may assist in bringing forth my word unto the children of men.
Doctrine and Covenants 96:9     Therefore ye shall ordain him unto this blessing, and he shall seek diligently to take away incumbrances that are upon the house named among you, that he may dwell therein. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 97:1     Verily I say unto you my friends, I speak unto you with my voice, even the voice of my Spirit, that I may show unto you my will concerning your brethren in the land of Zion, many of whom are truly humble and are seeking diligently to learn wisdom and to find truth.
Doctrine and Covenants 97:2     Verily, verily I say unto you, blessed are such, for they shall obtain; for I, the Lord, show mercy unto all the meek, and upon all whomsoever I will, that I may be justified when I shall bring them unto judgment.
Doctrine and Covenants 97:3     Behold, I say unto you, concerning the school in Zion, I, the Lord, am well pleased that there should be a school in Zion, and also with my servant Parley P. Pratt, for he abideth in me.
Doctrine and Covenants 97:4     And inasmuch as he continueth to abide in me he shall continue to preside over the school in the land of Zion until I shall give unto him other commandments.
Doctrine and Covenants 97:5     And I will bless him with a multiplicity of blessings, in expounding all scriptures and mysteries to the edification of the school, and of the church in Zion.
Doctrine and Covenants 97:6     And to the residue of the school, I, the Lord, am willing to show mercy; nevertheless, there are those that must needs be chastened, and their works shall be made known.
Doctrine and Covenants 97:7     The ax is laid at the root of the trees; and every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit shall be hewn down and cast into the fire. I, the Lord, have spoken it.
Doctrine and Covenants 97:8     Verily I say unto you, all among them who know their hearts are honest, and are broken, and their spirits contrite, and are willing to observe their covenants by sacrifice--yea, every sacrifice which I, the Lord, shall command--they are accepted of me.
Doctrine and Covenants 97:9     For I, the Lord, will cause them to bring forth as a very fruitful tree which is planted in a goodly land, by a pure stream, that yieldeth much precious fruit.
Doctrine and Covenants 97:10     Verily I say unto you, that it is my will that a house should be built unto me in the land of Zion, like unto the pattern which I have given you.
Doctrine and Covenants 97:11     Yea, let it be built speedily, by the tithing of my people.
Doctrine and Covenants 97:12     Behold, this is the tithing and the sacrifice which I, the Lord, require at their hands, that there may be a house built unto me for the salvation of Zion--
Doctrine and Covenants 97:13     For a place of thanksgiving for all saints, and for a place of instruction for all those who are called to the work of the ministry in all their several callings and offices;
Doctrine and Covenants 97:14     That they may be perfected in the understanding of their ministry, in theory, in principle, and in doctrine, in all things pertaining to the kingdom of God on the earth, the keys of which kingdom have been conferred upon you.
Doctrine and Covenants 97:15     And inasmuch as my people build a house unto me in the name of the Lord, and do not suffer any unclean thing to come into it, that it be not defiled, my glory shall rest upon it;
Doctrine and Covenants 97:16     Yea, and my presence shall be there, for I will come into it, and all the pure in heart that shall come into it shall see God.
Doctrine and Covenants 97:17     But if it be defiled I will not come into it, and my glory shall not be there; for I will not come into unholy temples.
Doctrine and Covenants 97:18     And, now, behold, if Zion do these things she shall prosper, and spread herself and become very glorious, very great, and very terrible.
Doctrine and Covenants 97:19     And the nations of the earth shall honor her, and shall say: Surely Zion is the city of our God, and surely Zion cannot fall, neither be moved out of her place, for God is there, and the hand of the Lord is there;
Doctrine and Covenants 97:20     And he hath sworn by the power of his might to be her salvation and her high tower.
Doctrine and Covenants 97:21     Therefore, verily, thus saith the Lord, let Zion rejoice, for this is Zion--the pure in heart; therefore, let Zion rejoice, while all the wicked shall mourn.
Doctrine and Covenants 97:22     For behold, and lo, vengeance cometh speedily upon the ungodly as the whirlwind; and who shall escape it?
Doctrine and Covenants 97:23     The Lord's scourge shall pass over by night and by day, and the report thereof shall vex all people; yea, it shall not be stayed until the Lord come;
Doctrine and Covenants 97:24     For the indignation of the Lord is kindled against their abominations and all their wicked works.
Doctrine and Covenants 97:25     Nevertheless, Zion shall escape if she observe to do all things whatsoever I have commanded her.
Doctrine and Covenants 97:26     But if she observe not to do whatsoever I have commanded her, I will visit her according to all her works, with sore affliction, with pestilence, with plague, with sword, with vengeance, with devouring fire.
Doctrine and Covenants 97:27     Nevertheless, let it be read this once to her ears, that I, the Lord, have accepted of her offering; and if she sin no more none of these things shall come upon her;
Doctrine and Covenants 97:28     And I will bless her with blessings, and multiply a multiplicity of blessings upon her, and upon her generations forever and ever, saith the Lord your God. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 98:1     Verily I say unto you my friends, fear not, let your hearts be comforted; yea, rejoice evermore, and in everything give thanks;
Doctrine and Covenants 98:2     Waiting patiently on the Lord, for your prayers have entered into the ears of the Lord of Sabaoth, and are recorded with this seal and testament--the Lord hath sworn and decreed that they shall be granted.
Doctrine and Covenants 98:3     Therefore, he giveth this promise unto you, with an immutable covenant that they shall be fulfilled; and all things wherewith you have been afflicted shall work together for your good, and to my name's glory, saith the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 98:4     And now, verily I say unto you concerning the laws of the land, it is my will that my people should observe to do all things whatsoever I command them.
Doctrine and Covenants 98:5     And that law of the land which is constitutional, supporting that principle of freedom in maintaining rights and privileges, belongs to all mankind, and is justifiable before me.
Doctrine and Covenants 98:6     Therefore, I, the Lord, justify you, and your brethren of my church, in befriending that law which is the constitutional law of the land;
Doctrine and Covenants 98:7     And as pertaining to law of man, whatsoever is more or less than this, cometh of evil.
Doctrine and Covenants 98:8     I, the Lord God, make you free, therefore ye are free indeed; and the law also maketh you free.
Doctrine and Covenants 98:9     Nevertheless, when the wicked rule the people mourn.
Doctrine and Covenants 98:10     Wherefore, honest men and wise men should be sought for diligently, and good men and wise men ye should observe to uphold; otherwise whatsoever is less than these cometh of evil.
Doctrine and Covenants 98:11     And I give unto you a commandment, that ye shall forsake all evil and cleave unto all good, that ye shall live by every word which proceedeth forth out of the mouth of God.
Doctrine and Covenants 98:12     For he will give unto the faithful line upon line, precept upon precept; and I will try you and prove you herewith.
Doctrine and Covenants 98:13     And whoso layeth down his life in my cause, for my name's sake, shall find it again, even life eternal.
Doctrine and Covenants 98:14     Therefore, be not afraid of your enemies, for I have decreed in my heart, saith the Lord, that I will prove you in all things, whether you will abide in my covenant, even unto death, that you may be found worthy.
Doctrine and Covenants 98:15     For if ye will not abide in my covenant ye are not worthy of me.
Doctrine and Covenants 98:16     Therefore, renounce war and proclaim peace, and seek diligently to turn the hearts of the children to their fathers, and the hearts of the fathers to the children;
Doctrine and Covenants 98:17     And again, the hearts of the Jews unto the prophets, and the prophets unto the Jews; lest I come and smite the whole earth with a curse, and all flesh be consumed before me.
Doctrine and Covenants 98:18     Let not your hearts be troubled; for in my Father's house are many mansions, and I have prepared a place for you; and where my Father and I am, there ye shall be also.
Doctrine and Covenants 98:19     Behold, I, the Lord, am not well pleased with many who are in the church at Kirtland;
Doctrine and Covenants 98:20     For they do not forsake their sins, and their wicked ways, the pride of their hearts, and their covetousness, and all their detestable things, and observe the words of wisdom and eternal life which I have given unto them.
Doctrine and Covenants 98:21     Verily I say unto you, that I, the Lord, will chasten them and will do whatsoever I list, if they do not repent and observe all things whatsoever I have said unto them.
Doctrine and Covenants 98:22     And again I say unto you, if ye observe to do whatsoever I command you, I, the Lord, will turn away all wrath and indignation from you, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against you.
Doctrine and Covenants 98:23     Now, I speak unto you concerning your families--if men will smite you, or your families, once, and ye bear it patiently and revile not against them, neither seek revenge, ye shall be rewarded;
Doctrine and Covenants 98:24     But if ye bear it not patiently, it shall be accounted unto you as being meted out as a just measure unto you.
Doctrine and Covenants 98:25     And again, if your enemy shall smite you the second time, and you revile not against your enemy, and bear it patiently, your reward shall be an hundred-fold.
Doctrine and Covenants 98:26     And again, if he shall smite you the third time, and ye bear it patiently, your reward shall be doubled unto you four-fold;
Doctrine and Covenants 98:27     And these three testimonies shall stand against your enemy if he repent not, and shall not be blotted out.
Doctrine and Covenants 98:28     And now, verily I say unto you, if that enemy shall escape my vengeance, that he be not brought into judgment before me, then ye shall see to it that ye warn him in my name, that he come no more upon you, neither upon your family, even your children's children unto the third and fourth generation.
Doctrine and Covenants 98:29     And then, if he shall come upon you or your children, or your children's children unto the third and fourth generation, I have delivered thine enemy into thine hands;
Doctrine and Covenants 98:30     And then if thou wilt spare him, thou shalt be rewarded for thy righteousness; and also thy children and thy children's children unto the third and fourth generation.
Doctrine and Covenants 98:31     Nevertheless, thine enemy is in thine hands; and if thou rewardest him according to his works thou art justified; if he has sought thy life, and thy life is endangered by him, thine enemy is in thine hands and thou art justified.
Doctrine and Covenants 98:32     Behold, this is the law I gave unto my servant Nephi, and thy fathers, Joseph, and Jacob, and Isaac, and Abraham, and all mine ancient prophets and apostles.
Doctrine and Covenants 98:33     And again, this is the law that I gave unto mine ancients, that they should not go out unto battle against any nation, kindred, tongue, or people, save I, the Lord, commanded them.
Doctrine and Covenants 98:34     And if any nation, tongue, or people should proclaim war against them, they should first lift a standard of peace unto that people, nation, or tongue;
Doctrine and Covenants 98:35     And if that people did not accept the offering of peace, neither the second nor the third time, they should bring these testimonies before the Lord;
Doctrine and Covenants 98:36     Then I, the Lord, would give unto them a commandment, and justify them in going out to battle against that nation, tongue, or people.
Doctrine and Covenants 98:37     And I, the Lord, would fight their battles, and their children's battles, and their children's children's, until they had avenged themselves on all their enemies, to the third and fourth generation.
Doctrine and Covenants 98:38     Behold, this is an ensample unto all people, saith the Lord your God, for justification before me.
Doctrine and Covenants 98:39     And again, verily I say unto you, if after thine enemy has come upon thee the first time, he repent and come unto thee praying thy forgiveness, thou shalt forgive him, and shalt hold it no more as a testimony against thine enemy--
Doctrine and Covenants 98:40     And so on unto the second and third time; and as oft as thine enemy repenteth of the trespass wherewith he has trespassed against thee, thou shalt forgive him, until seventy times seven.
Doctrine and Covenants 98:41     And if he trespass against thee and repent not the first time, nevertheless thou shalt forgive him.
Doctrine and Covenants 98:42     And if he trespass against thee the second time, and repent not, nevertheless thou shalt forgive him.
Doctrine and Covenants 98:43     And if he trespass against thee the third time, and repent not, thou shalt also forgive him.
Doctrine and Covenants 98:44     But if he trespass against thee the fourth time thou shalt not forgive him, but shalt bring these testimonies before the Lord; and they shall not be blotted out until he repent and reward thee four-fold in all things wherewith he has trespassed against thee.
Doctrine and Covenants 98:45     And if he do this, thou shalt forgive him with all thine heart; and if he do not this, I, the Lord, will avenge thee of thine enemy an hundred-fold;
Doctrine and Covenants 98:46     And upon his children, and upon his children's children of all them that hate me, unto the third and fourth generation.
Doctrine and Covenants 98:47     But if the children shall repent, or the children's children, and turn to the Lord their God, with all their hearts and with all their might, mind, and strength, and restore four-fold for all their trespasses wherewith they have trespassed, or wherewith their fathers have trespassed, or their fathers' fathers, then thine indignation shall be turned away;
Doctrine and Covenants 98:48     And vengeance shall no more come upon them, saith the Lord thy God, and their trespasses shall never be brought any more as a testimony before the Lord against them. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 99:1     Behold, thus saith the Lord unto my servant John Murdock--thou art called to go into the eastern countries from house to house, from village to village, and from city to city, to proclaim mine everlasting gospel unto the inhabitants thereof, in the midst of persecution and wickedness.
Doctrine and Covenants 99:2     And who receiveth you receiveth me; and you shall have power to declare my word in the demonstration of my Holy Spirit.
Doctrine and Covenants 99:3     And who receiveth you as a little child, receiveth my kingdom; and blessed are they, for they shall obtain mercy.
Doctrine and Covenants 99:4     And whoso rejecteth you shall be rejected of my Father and his house; and you shall cleanse your feet in the secret places by the way for a testimony against them.
Doctrine and Covenants 99:5     And behold, and lo, I come quickly to judgment, to convince all of their ungodly deeds which they have committed against me, as it is written of me in the volume of the book.
Doctrine and Covenants 99:6     And now, verily I say unto you, that it is not expedient that you should go until your children are provided for, and sent up kindly unto the bishop of Zion.
Doctrine and Covenants 99:7     And after a few years, if thou desirest of me, thou mayest go up also unto the goodly land, to possess thine inheritance;
Doctrine and Covenants 99:8     Otherwise thou shalt continue proclaiming my gospel until thou be taken. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 100:1     Verily, thus saith the Lord unto you, my friends Sidney and Joseph, your families are well; they are in mine hands, and I will do with them as seemeth me good; for in me there is all power.
Doctrine and Covenants 100:2     Therefore, follow me, and listen to the counsel which I shall give unto you.
Doctrine and Covenants 100:3     Behold, and lo, I have much people in this place, in the regions round about; and an effectual door shall be opened in the regions round about in this eastern land.
Doctrine and Covenants 100:4     Therefore, I, the Lord, have suffered you to come unto this place; for thus it was expedient in me for the salvation of souls.
Doctrine and Covenants 100:5     Therefore, verily I say unto you, lift up your voices unto this people; speak the thoughts that I shall put into your hearts, and you shall not be confounded before men;
Doctrine and Covenants 100:6     For it shall be given you in the very hour, yea, in the very moment, what ye shall say.
Doctrine and Covenants 100:7     But a commandment I give unto you, that ye shall declare whatsoever thing ye declare in my name, in solemnity of heart, in the spirit of meekness, in all things.
Doctrine and Covenants 100:8     And I give unto you this promise, that inasmuch as ye do this the Holy Ghost shall be shed forth in bearing record unto all things whatsoever ye shall say.
Doctrine and Covenants 100:9     And it is expedient in me that you, my servant Sidney, should be a spokesman unto this people; yea, verily, I will ordain you unto this calling, even to be a spokesman unto my servant Joseph.
Doctrine and Covenants 100:10     And I will give unto him power to be mighty in testimony.
Doctrine and Covenants 100:11     And I will give unto thee power to be mighty in expounding all scriptures, that thou mayest be a spokesman unto him, and he shall be a revelator unto thee, that thou mayest know the certainty of all things pertaining to the things of my kingdom on the earth.
Doctrine and Covenants 100:12     Therefore, continue your journey and let your hearts rejoice; for behold, and lo, I am with you even unto the end.
Doctrine and Covenants 100:13     And now I give unto you a word concerning Zion. Zion shall be redeemed, although she is chastened for a little season.
Doctrine and Covenants 100:14     Thy brethren, my servants Orson Hyde and John Gould, are in my hands; and inasmuch as they keep my commandments they shall be saved.
Doctrine and Covenants 100:15     Therefore, let your hearts be comforted; for all things shall work together for good to them that walk uprightly, and to the sanctification of the church.
Doctrine and Covenants 100:16     For I will raise up unto myself a pure people, that will serve me in righteousness;
Doctrine and Covenants 100:17     And all that call upon the name of the Lord, and keep his commandments, shall be saved. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:1     Verily I say unto you, concerning your brethren who have been afflicted, and persecuted, and cast out from the land of their inheritance--
Doctrine and Covenants 101:2     I, the Lord, have suffered the affliction to come upon them, wherewith they have been afflicted, in consequence of their transgressions;
Doctrine and Covenants 101:3     Yet I will own them, and they shall be mine in that day when I shall come to make up my jewels.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:4     Therefore, they must needs be chastened and tried, even as Abraham, who was commanded to offer up his only son.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:5     For all those who will not endure chastening, but deny me, cannot be sanctified.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:6     Behold, I say unto you, there were jarrings, and contentions, and envyings, and strifes, and lustful and covetous desires among them; therefore by these things they polluted their inheritances.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:7     They were slow to hearken unto the voice of the Lord their God; therefore, the Lord their God is slow to hearken unto their prayers, to answer them in the day of their trouble.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:8     In the day of their peace they esteemed lightly my counsel; but, in the day of their trouble, of necessity they feel after me.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:9     Verily I say unto you, notwithstanding their sins, my bowels are filled with compassion towards them. I will not utterly cast them off; and in the day of wrath I will remember mercy.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:10     I have sworn, and the decree hath gone forth by a former commandment which I have given unto you, that I would let fall the sword of mine indignation in behalf of my people; and even as I have said, it shall come to pass.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:11     Mine indignation is soon to be poured out without measure upon all nations; and this will I do when the cup of their iniquity is full.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:12     And in that day all who are found upon the watch-tower, or in other words, all mine Israel, shall be saved.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:13     And they that have been scattered shall be gathered.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:14     And all they who have mourned shall be comforted.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:15     And all they who have given their lives for my name shall be crowned.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:16     Therefore, let your hearts be comforted concerning Zion; for all flesh is in mine hands; be still and know that I am God.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:17     Zion shall not be moved out of her place, notwithstanding her children are scattered.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:18     They that remain, and are pure in heart, shall return, and come to their inheritances, they and their children, with songs of everlasting joy, to build up the waste places of Zion--
Doctrine and Covenants 101:19     And all these things that the prophets might be fulfilled.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:20     And, behold, there is none other place appointed than that which I have appointed; neither shall there be any other place appointed than that which I have appointed, for the work of the gathering of my saints--
Doctrine and Covenants 101:21     Until the day cometh when there is found no more room for them; and then I have other places which I will appoint unto them, and they shall be called stakes, for the curtains or the strength of Zion.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:22     Behold, it is my will, that all they who call on my name, and worship me according to mine everlasting gospel, should gather together, and stand in holy places;
Doctrine and Covenants 101:23     And prepare for the revelation which is to come, when the veil of the covering of my temple, in my tabernacle, which hideth the earth, shall be taken off, and all flesh shall see me together.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:24     And every corruptible thing, both of man, or of the beasts of the field, or of the fowls of the heavens, or of the fish of the sea, that dwells upon all the face of the earth, shall be consumed;
Doctrine and Covenants 101:25     And also that of element shall melt with fervent heat; and all things shall become new, that my knowledge and glory may dwell upon all the earth.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:26     And in that day the enmity of man, and the enmity of beasts, yea, the enmity of all flesh, shall cease from before my face.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:27     And in that day whatsoever any man shall ask, it shall be given unto him.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:28     And in that day Satan shall not have power to tempt any man.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:29     And there shall be no sorrow because there is no death.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:30     In that day an infant shall not die until he is old; and his life shall be as the age of a tree;
Doctrine and Covenants 101:31     And when he dies he shall not sleep, that is to say in the earth, but shall be changed in the twinkling of an eye, and shall be caught up, and his rest shall be glorious.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:32     Yea, verily I say unto you, in that day when the Lord shall come, he shall reveal all things--
Doctrine and Covenants 101:33     Things which have passed, and hidden things which no man knew, things of the earth, by which it was made, and the purpose and the end thereof--
Doctrine and Covenants 101:34     Things most precious, things that are above, and things that are beneath, things that are in the earth, and upon the earth, and in heaven.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:35     And all they who suffer persecution for my name, and endure in faith, though they are called to lay down their lives for my sake yet shall they partake of all this glory.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:36     Wherefore, fear not even unto death; for in this world your joy is not full, but in me your joy is full.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:37     Therefore, care not for the body, neither the life of the body; but care for the soul, and for the life of the soul.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:38     And seek the face of the Lord always, that in patience ye may possess your souls, and ye shall have eternal life.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:39     When men are called unto mine everlasting gospel, and covenant with an everlasting covenant, they are accounted as the salt of the earth and the savor of men;
Doctrine and Covenants 101:40     They are called to be the savor of men; therefore, if that salt of the earth lose its savor, behold, it is thenceforth good for nothing only to be cast out and trodden under the feet of men.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:41     Behold, here is wisdom concerning the children of Zion, even many, but not all; they were found transgressors, therefore they must needs be chastened--
Doctrine and Covenants 101:42     He that exalteth himself shall be abased, and he that abaseth himself shall be exalted.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:43     And now, I will show unto you a parable, that you may know my will concerning the redemption of Zion.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:44     A certain nobleman had a spot of land, very choice; and he said unto his servants: Go ye unto my vineyard, even upon this very choice piece of land, and plant twelve olive trees;
Doctrine and Covenants 101:45     And set watchmen round about them, and build a tower, that one may overlook the land round about, to be a watchman upon the tower, that mine olive trees may not be broken down when the enemy shall come to spoil and take upon themselves the fruit of my vineyard.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:46     Now, the servants of the nobleman went and did as their lord commanded them, and planted the olive trees, and built a hedge round about, and set watchmen, and began to build a tower.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:47     And while they were yet laying the foundation thereof, they began to say among themselves: And what need hath my lord of this tower?
Doctrine and Covenants 101:48     And consulted for a long time, saying among themselves: What need hath my lord of this tower, seeing this is a time of peace?
Doctrine and Covenants 101:49     Might not this money be given to the exchangers? For there is no need of these things.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:50     And while they were at variance one with another they became very slothful, and they hearkened not unto the commandments of their lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:51     And the enemy came by night, and broke down the hedge; and the servants of the nobleman arose and were affrighted, and fled; and the enemy destroyed their works, and broke down the olive trees.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:52     Now, behold, the nobleman, the lord of the vineyard, called upon his servants, and said unto them, Why! what is the cause of this great evil?
Doctrine and Covenants 101:53     Ought ye not to have done even as I commanded you, and--after ye had planted the vineyard, and built the hedge round about, and set watchmen upon the walls thereof--built the tower also, and set a watchman upon the tower, and watched for my vineyard, and not have fallen asleep, lest the enemy should come upon you?
Doctrine and Covenants 101:54     And behold, the watchman upon the tower would have seen the enemy while he was yet afar off; and then ye could have made ready and kept the enemy from breaking down the hedge thereof, and saved my vineyard from the hands of the destroyer.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:55     And the lord of the vineyard said unto one of his servants: Go and gather together the residue of my servants, and take all the strength of mine house, which are my warriors, my young men, and they that are of middle age also among all my servants, who are the strength of mine house, save those only whom I have appointed to tarry;
Doctrine and Covenants 101:56     And go ye straightway unto the land of my vineyard, and redeem my vineyard; for it is mine; I have bought it with money.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:57     Therefore, get ye straightway unto my land; break down the walls of mine enemies; throw down their tower, and scatter their watchmen.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:58     And inasmuch as they gather together against you, avenge me of mine enemies, that by and by I may come with the residue of mine house and possess the land.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:59     And the servant said unto his lord: When shall these things be?
Doctrine and Covenants 101:60     And he said unto his servant: When I will; go ye straightway, and do all things whatsoever I have commanded you;
Doctrine and Covenants 101:61     And this shall be my seal and blessing upon you--a faithful and wise steward in the midst of mine house, a ruler in my kingdom.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:62     And his servant went straightway, and did all things whatsoever his lord commanded him; and after many days all things were fulfilled.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:63     Again, verily I say unto you, I will show unto you wisdom in me concerning all the churches, inasmuch as they are willing to be guided in a right and proper way for their salvation--
Doctrine and Covenants 101:64     That the work of the gathering together of my saints may continue, that I may build them up unto my name upon holy places; for the time of harvest is come, and my word must needs be fulfilled.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:65     Therefore, I must gather together my people, according to the parable of the wheat and the tares, that the wheat may be secured in the garners to possess eternal life, and be crowned with celestial glory, when I shall come in the kingdom of my Father to reward every man according as his work shall be;
Doctrine and Covenants 101:66     While the tares shall be bound in bundles, and their bands made strong, that they may be burned with unquenchable fire.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:67     Therefore, a commandment I give unto all the churches, that they shall continue to gather together unto the places which I have appointed.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:68     Nevertheless, as I have said unto you in a former commandment, let not your gathering be in haste, nor by flight; but let all things be prepared before you.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:69     And in order that all things be prepared before you, observe the commandment which I have given concerning these things--
Doctrine and Covenants 101:70     Which saith, or teacheth, to purchase all the lands with money, which can be purchased for money, in the region round about the land which I have appointed to be the land of Zion, for the beginning of the gathering of my saints;
Doctrine and Covenants 101:71     All the land which can be purchased in Jackson county, and the counties round about, and leave the residue in mine hand.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:72     Now, verily I say unto you, let all the churches gather together all their moneys; let these things be done in their time, but not in haste; and observe to have all things prepared before you.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:73     And let honorable men be appointed, even wise men, and send them to purchase these lands.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:74     And the churches in the eastern countries, when they are built up, if they will hearken unto this counsel they may buy lands and gather together upon them; and in this way they may establish Zion.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:75     There is even now already in store sufficient, yea, even an abundance, to redeem Zion, and establish her waste places, no more to be thrown down, were the churches, who call themselves after my name, willing to hearken to my voice.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:76     And again I say unto you, those who have been scattered by their enemies, it is my will that they should continue to importune for redress, and redemption, by the hands of those who are placed as rulers and are in authority over you--
Doctrine and Covenants 101:77     According to the laws and constitution of the people, which I have suffered to be established, and should be maintained for the rights and protection of all flesh, according to just and holy principles;
Doctrine and Covenants 101:78     That every man may act in doctrine and principle pertaining to futurity, according to the moral agency which I have given unto him, that every man may be accountable for his own sins in the day of judgment.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:79     Therefore, it is not right that any man should be in bondage one to another.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:80     And for this purpose have I established the Constitution of this land, by the hands of wise men whom I raised up unto this very purpose, and redeemed the land by the shedding of blood.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:81     Now, unto what shall I liken the children of Zion? I will liken them unto the parable of the woman and the unjust judge, for men ought always to pray and not to faint, which saith--
Doctrine and Covenants 101:82     There was in a city a judge which feared not God, neither regarded man.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:83     And there was a widow in that city, and she came unto him, saying: Avenge me of mine adversary.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:84     And he would not for a while, but afterward he said within himself: Though I fear not God, nor regard man, yet because this widow troubleth me I will avenge her, lest by her continual coming she weary me.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:85     Thus will I liken the children of Zion.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:86     Let them importune at the feet of the judge;
Doctrine and Covenants 101:87     And if he heed them not, let them importune at the feet of the governor;
Doctrine and Covenants 101:88     And if the governor heed them not, let them importune at the feet of the president;
Doctrine and Covenants 101:89     And if the president heed them not, then will the Lord arise and come forth out of his hiding place, and in his fury vex the nation;
Doctrine and Covenants 101:90     And in his hot displeasure, and in his fierce anger, in his time, will cut off those wicked, unfaithful, and unjust stewards, and appoint them their portion among hypocrites, and unbelievers;
Doctrine and Covenants 101:91     Even in outer darkness, where there is weeping, and wailing, and gnashing of teeth.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:92     Pray ye, therefore, that their ears may be opened unto your cries, that I may be merciful unto them, that these things may not come upon them.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:93     What I have said unto you must needs be, that all men may be left without excuse;
Doctrine and Covenants 101:94     That wise men and rulers may hear and know that which they have never considered;
Doctrine and Covenants 101:95     That I may proceed to bring to pass my act, my strange act, and perform my work, my strange work, that men may discern between the righteous and the wicked, saith your God.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:96     And again, I say unto you, it is contrary to my commandment and my will that my servant Sidney Gilbert should sell my storehouse, which I have appointed unto my people, into the hands of mine enemies.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:97     Let not that which I have appointed be polluted by mine enemies, by the consent of those who call themselves after my name;
Doctrine and Covenants 101:98     For this is a very sore and grievous sin against me, and against my people, in consequence of those things which I have decreed and which are soon to befall the nations.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:99     Therefore, it is my will that my people should claim, and hold claim upon that which I have appointed unto them, though they should not be permitted to dwell thereon.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:100     Nevertheless, I do not say they shall not dwell thereon; for inasmuch as they bring forth fruit and works meet for my kingdom they shall dwell thereon.
Doctrine and Covenants 101:101     They shall build, and another shall not inherit it; they shall plant vineyards, and they shall eat the fruit thereof. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 102:1     This day a general council of twenty-four high priests assembled at the house of Joseph Smith, Jun., by revelation, and proceeded to organize the high council of the church of Christ, which was to consist of twelve high priests, and one or three presidents as the case might require.
Doctrine and Covenants 102:2     The high council was appointed by revelation for the purpose of settling important difficulties which might arise in the church, which could not be settled by the church or the bishop's council to the satisfaction of the parties.
Doctrine and Covenants 102:3     Joseph Smith, Jun., Sidney Rigdon and Frederick G. Williams were acknowledged presidents by the voice of the council; and Joseph Smith, Sen., John Smith, Joseph Coe, John Johnson, Martin Harris, John S. Carter, Jared Carter, Oliver Cowdery, Samuel H. Smith, Orson Hyde, Sylvester Smith, and Luke Johnson, high priests, were chosen to be a standing council for the church, by the unanimous voice of the council.
Doctrine and Covenants 102:4     The above-named councilors were then asked whether they accepted their appointments, and whether they would act in that office according to the law of heaven, to which they all answered that they accepted their appointments, and would fill their offices according to the grace of God bestowed upon them.
Doctrine and Covenants 102:5     The number composing the council, who voted in the name and for the church in appointing the above-named councilors were forty-three, as follows: nine high priests, seventeen elders, four priests, and thirteen members.
Doctrine and Covenants 102:6     Voted: that the high council cannot have power to act without seven of the above-named councilors, or their regularly appointed successors are present.
Doctrine and Covenants 102:7     These seven shall have power to appoint other high priests, whom they may consider worthy and capable to act in the place of absent councilors.
Doctrine and Covenants 102:8     Voted: that whenever any vacancy shall occur by the death, removal from office for transgression, or removal from the bounds of this church government, of any one of the above-named councilors, it shall be filled by the nomination of the president or presidents, and sanctioned by the voice of a general council of high priests, convened for that purpose, to act in the name of the church.
Doctrine and Covenants 102:9     The president of the church, who is also the president of the council, is appointed by revelation, and acknowledged in his administration by the voice of the church.
Doctrine and Covenants 102:10     And it is according to the dignity of his office that he should preside over the council of the church; and it is his privilege to be assisted by two other presidents, appointed after the same manner that he himself was appointed.
Doctrine and Covenants 102:11     And in case of the absence of one or both of those who are appointed to assist him, he has power to preside over the council without an assistant; and in case he himself is absent, the other presidents have power to preside in his stead, both or either of them.
Doctrine and Covenants 102:12     Whenever a high council of the church of Christ is regularly organized, according to the foregoing pattern, it shall be the duty of the twelve councilors to cast lots by numbers, and thereby ascertain who of the twelve shall speak first, commencing with number one and so in succession to number twelve.
Doctrine and Covenants 102:13     Whenever this council convenes to act upon any case, the twelve councilors shall consider whether it is a difficult one or not; if it is not, two only of the councilors shall speak upon it, according to the form above written.
Doctrine and Covenants 102:14     But if it is thought to be difficult, four shall be appointed; and if more difficult, six; but in no case shall more than six be appointed to speak.
Doctrine and Covenants 102:15     The accused, in all cases, has a right to one-half of the council, to prevent insult or injustice.
Doctrine and Covenants 102:16     And the councilors appointed to speak before the council are to present the case, after the evidence is examined, in its true light before the council; and every man is to speak according to equity and justice.
Doctrine and Covenants 102:17     Those councilors who draw even numbers, that is, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12, are the individuals who are to stand up in behalf of the accused, and prevent insult and injustice.
Doctrine and Covenants 102:18     In all cases the accuser and the accused shall have a privilege of speaking for themselves before the council, after the evidences are heard and the councilors who are appointed to speak on the case have finished their remarks.
Doctrine and Covenants 102:19     After the evidences are heard, the councilors, accuser and accused have spoken, the president shall give a decision according to the understanding which he shall have of the case, and call upon the twelve councilors to sanction the same by their vote.
Doctrine and Covenants 102:20     But should the remaining councilors, who have not spoken, or any one of them, after hearing the evidences and pleadings impartially, discover an error in the decision of the president, they can manifest it, and the case shall have a re-hearing.
Doctrine and Covenants 102:21     And if, after a careful re-hearing, any additional light is shown upon the case, the decision shall be altered accordingly.
Doctrine and Covenants 102:22     But in case no additional light is given, the first decision shall stand, the majority of the council having power to determine the same.
Doctrine and Covenants 102:23     In case of difficulty respecting doctrine or principle, if there is not a sufficiency written to make the case clear to the minds of the council, the president may inquire and obtain the mind of the Lord by revelation.
Doctrine and Covenants 102:24     The high priests, when abroad, have power to call and organize a council after the manner of the foregoing, to settle difficulties, when the parties or either of them shall request it.
Doctrine and Covenants 102:25     And the said council of high priests shall have power to appoint one of their own number to preside over such council for the time being.
Doctrine and Covenants 102:26     It shall be the duty of said council to transmit, immediately, a copy of their proceedings, with a full statement of the testimony accompanying their decision, to the high council of the seat of the First Presidency of the Church.
Doctrine and Covenants 102:27     Should the parties or either of them be dissatisfied with the decision of said council, they may appeal to the high council of the seat of the First Presidency of the Church, and have a re-hearing, which case shall there be conducted, according to the former pattern written, as though no such decision had been made.
Doctrine and Covenants 102:28     This council of high priests abroad is only to be called on the most difficult cases of church matters; and no common or ordinary case is to be sufficient to call such council.
Doctrine and Covenants 102:29     The traveling or located high priests abroad have power to say whether it is necessary to call such a council or not.
Doctrine and Covenants 102:30     There is a distinction between the high council or traveling high priests abroad, and the traveling high council composed of the twelve apostles, in their decisions.
Doctrine and Covenants 102:31     From the decision of the former there can be an appeal; but from the decision of the latter there cannot.
Doctrine and Covenants 102:32     The latter can only be called in question by the general authorities of the church in case of transgression.
Doctrine and Covenants 102:33     Resolved: that the president or presidents of the seat of the First Presidency of the Church shall have power to determine whether any such case, as may be appealed, is justly entitled to a re-hearing, after examining the appeal and the evidences and statements accompanying it.
Doctrine and Covenants 102:34     The twelve councilors then proceeded to cast lots or ballot, to ascertain who should speak first, and the following was the result, namely: 1, Oliver Cowdery; 2, Joseph Coe; 3, Samuel H. Smith; 4, Luke Johnson; 5, John S. Carter; 6, Sylvester Smith; 7, John Johnson; 8, Orson Hyde; 9, Jared Carter; 10, Joseph Smith, Sen.; 11, John Smith; 12, Martin Harris. After prayer the conference adjourned. Oliver Cowdery, Orson Hyde, Clerks
Doctrine and Covenants 103:1     Verily I say unto you, my friends, behold, I will give unto you a revelation and commandment, that you may know how to act in the discharge of your duties concerning the salvation and redemption of your brethren, who have been scattered on the land of Zion;
Doctrine and Covenants 103:2     Being driven and smitten by the hands of mine enemies, on whom I will pour out my wrath without measure in mine own time.
Doctrine and Covenants 103:3     For I have suffered them thus far, that they might fill up the measure of their iniquities, that their cup might be full;
Doctrine and Covenants 103:4     And that those who call themselves after my name might be chastened for a little season with a sore and grievous chastisement, because they did not hearken altogether unto the precepts and commandments which I gave unto them.
Doctrine and Covenants 103:5     But verily I say unto you, that I have decreed a decree which my people shall realize, inasmuch as they hearken from this very hour unto the counsel which I, the Lord their God, shall give unto them.
Doctrine and Covenants 103:6     Behold they shall, for I have decreed it, begin to prevail against mine enemies from this very hour.
Doctrine and Covenants 103:7     And by hearkening to observe all the words which I, the Lord their God, shall speak unto them, they shall never cease to prevail until the kingdoms of the world are subdued under my feet, and the earth is given unto the saints, to possess it forever and ever.
Doctrine and Covenants 103:8     But inasmuch as they keep not my commandments, and hearken not to observe all my words, the kingdoms of the world shall prevail against them.
Doctrine and Covenants 103:9     For they were set to be a light unto the world, and to be the saviors of men;
Doctrine and Covenants 103:10     And inasmuch as they are not the saviors of men, they are as salt that has lost its savor, and is thenceforth good for nothing but to be cast out and trodden under foot of men.
Doctrine and Covenants 103:11     But verily I say unto you, I have decreed that your brethren which have been scattered shall return to the lands of their inheritances, and shall build up the waste places of Zion.
Doctrine and Covenants 103:12     For after much tribulation, as I have said unto you in a former commandment, cometh the blessing.
Doctrine and Covenants 103:13     Behold, this is the blessing which I have promised after your tribulations, and the tribulations of your brethren--your redemption, and the redemption of your brethren, even their restoration to the land of Zion, to be established, no more to be thrown down.
Doctrine and Covenants 103:14     Nevertheless, if they pollute their inheritances they shall be thrown down; for I will not spare them if they pollute their inheritances.
Doctrine and Covenants 103:15     Behold, I say unto you, the redemption of Zion must needs come by power;
Doctrine and Covenants 103:16     Therefore, I will raise up unto my people a man, who shall lead them like as Moses led the children of Israel.
Doctrine and Covenants 103:17     For ye are the children of Israel, and of the seed of Abraham, and ye must needs be led out of bondage by power, and with a stretched-out arm.
Doctrine and Covenants 103:18     And as your fathers were led at the first, even so shall the redemption of Zion be.
Doctrine and Covenants 103:19     Therefore, let not your hearts faint, for I say not unto you as I said unto your fathers: Mine angel shall go up before you, but not my presence.
Doctrine and Covenants 103:20     But I say unto you: Mine angels shall go up before you, and also my presence, and in time ye shall possess the goodly land.
Doctrine and Covenants 103:21     Verily, verily I say unto you, that my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., is the man to whom I likened the servant to whom the Lord of the vineyard spake in the parable which I have given unto you.
Doctrine and Covenants 103:22     Therefore let my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., say unto the strength of my house, my young men and the middle aged--Gather yourselves together unto the land of Zion, upon the land which I have bought with money that has been consecrated unto me.
Doctrine and Covenants 103:23     And let all the churches send up wise men with their moneys, and purchase lands even as I have commanded them.
Doctrine and Covenants 103:24     And inasmuch as mine enemies come against you to drive you from my goodly land, which I have consecrated to be the land of Zion, even from your own lands after these testimonies, which ye have brought before me against them, ye shall curse them;
Doctrine and Covenants 103:25     And whomsoever ye curse, I will curse, and ye shall avenge me of mine enemies.
Doctrine and Covenants 103:26     And my presence shall be with you even in avenging me of mine enemies, unto the third and fourth generation of them that hate me.
Doctrine and Covenants 103:27     Let no man be afraid to lay down his life for my sake; for whoso layeth down his life for my sake shall find it again.
Doctrine and Covenants 103:28     And whoso is not willing to lay down his life for my sake is not my disciple.
Doctrine and Covenants 103:29     It is my will that my servant Sidney Rigdon shall lift up his voice in the congregations in the eastern countries, in preparing the churches to keep the commandments which I have given unto them concerning the restoration and redemption of Zion.
Doctrine and Covenants 103:30     It is my will that my servant Parley P. Pratt and my servant Lyman Wight should not return to the land of their brethren, until they have obtained companies to go up unto the land of Zion, by tens, or by twenties, or by fifties, or by an hundred, until they have obtained to the number of five hundred of the strength of my house.
Doctrine and Covenants 103:31     Behold this is my will; ask and ye shall receive; but men do not always do my will.
Doctrine and Covenants 103:32     Therefore, if you cannot obtain five hundred, seek diligently that peradventure you may obtain three hundred.
Doctrine and Covenants 103:33     And if ye cannot obtain three hundred, seek diligently that peradventure ye may obtain one hundred.
Doctrine and Covenants 103:34     But verily I say unto you, a commandment I give unto you, that ye shall not go up unto the land of Zion until you have obtained a hundred of the strength of my house, to go up with you unto the land of Zion.
Doctrine and Covenants 103:35     Therefore, as I said unto you, ask and ye shall receive; pray earnestly that peradventure my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., may go with you, and preside in the midst of my people, and organize my kingdom upon the consecrated land, and establish the children of Zion upon the laws and commandments which have been and which shall be given unto you.
Doctrine and Covenants 103:36     All victory and glory is brought to pass unto you through your diligence, faithfulness, and prayers of faith.
Doctrine and Covenants 103:37     Let my servant Parley P. Pratt journey with my servant Joseph Smith, Jun.
Doctrine and Covenants 103:38     Let my servant Lyman Wight journey with my servant Sidney Rigdon.
Doctrine and Covenants 103:39     Let my servant Hyrum Smith journey with my servant Frederick G. Williams.
Doctrine and Covenants 103:40     Let my servant Orson Hyde journey with my servant Orson Pratt, whithersoever my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., shall counsel them, in obtaining the fulfilment of these commandments which I have given unto you, and leave the residue in my hands. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:1     Verily I say unto you, my friends, I give unto you counsel, and a commandment, concerning all the properties which belong to the order which I commanded to be organized and established, to be a united order, and an everlasting order for the benefit of my church, and for the salvation of men until I come--
Doctrine and Covenants 104:2     With promise immutable and unchangeable, that inasmuch as those whom I commanded were faithful they should be blessed with a multiplicity of blessings;
Doctrine and Covenants 104:3     But inasmuch as they were not faithful they were nigh unto cursing.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:4     Therefore, inasmuch as some of my servants have not kept the commandment, but have broken the covenant through covetousness, and with feigned words, I have cursed them with a very sore and grievous curse.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:5     For I, the Lord, have decreed in my heart, that inasmuch as any man belonging to the order shall be found a transgressor, or, in other words, shall break the covenant with which ye are bound, he shall be cursed in his life, and shall be trodden down by whom I will;
Doctrine and Covenants 104:6     For I, the Lord, am not to be mocked in these things--
Doctrine and Covenants 104:7     And all this that the innocent among you may not be condemned with the unjust; and that the guilty among you may not escape; because I, the Lord, have promised unto you a crown of glory at my right hand.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:8     Therefore, inasmuch as you are found transgressors, you cannot escape my wrath in your lives.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:9     Inasmuch as ye are cut off for transgression, ye cannot escape the buffetings of Satan until the day of redemption.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:10     And I now give unto you power from this very hour, that if any man among you, of the order, is found a transgressor and repenteth not of the evil, that ye shall deliver him over unto the buffetings of Satan; and he shall not have power to bring evil upon you.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:11     It is wisdom in me; therefore, a commandment I give unto you, that ye shall organize yourselves and appoint every man his stewardship;
Doctrine and Covenants 104:12     That every man may give an account unto me of the stewardship which is appointed unto him.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:13     For it is expedient that I, the Lord, should make every man accountable, as a steward over earthly blessings, which I have made and prepared for my creatures.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:14     I, the Lord, stretched out the heavens, and built the earth, my very handiwork; and all things therein are mine.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:15     And it is my purpose to provide for my saints, for all things are mine.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:16     But it must needs be done in mine own way; and behold this is the way that I, the Lord, have decreed to provide for my saints, that the poor shall be exalted, in that the rich are made low.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:17     For the earth is full, and there is enough and to spare; yea, I prepared all things, and have given unto the children of men to be agents unto themselves.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:18     Therefore, if any man shall take of the abundance which I have made, and impart not his portion, according to the law of my gospel, unto the poor and the needy, he shall, with the wicked, lift up his eyes in hell, being in torment.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:19     And now, verily I say unto you, concerning the properties of the order--
Doctrine and Covenants 104:20     Let my servant Sidney Rigdon have appointed unto him the place where he now resides, and the lot of the tannery for his stewardship, for his support while he is laboring in my vineyard, even as I will, when I shall command him.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:21     And let all things be done according to the counsel of the order, and united consent or voice of the order, which dwell in the land of Kirtland.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:22     And this stewardship and blessing, I, the Lord, confer upon my servant Sidney Rigdon for a blessing upon him, and his seed after him;
Doctrine and Covenants 104:23     And I will multiply blessings upon him, inasmuch as he will be humble before me.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:24     And again, let my servant Martin Harris have appointed unto him, for his stewardship, the lot of land which my servant John Johnson obtained in exchange for his former inheritance, for him and his seed after him;
Doctrine and Covenants 104:25     And inasmuch as he is faithful, I will multiply blessings upon him and his seed after him.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:26     And let my servant Martin Harris devote his moneys for the proclaiming of my words, according as my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., shall direct.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:27     And again, let my servant Frederick G. Williams have the place upon which he now dwells.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:28     And let my servant Oliver Cowdery have the lot which is set off joining the house, which is to be for the printing office, which is lot number one, and also the lot upon which his father resides.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:29     And let my servants Frederick G. Williams and Oliver Cowdery have the printing office and all things that pertain unto it.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:30     And this shall be their stewardship which shall be appointed unto them.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:31     And inasmuch as they are faithful, behold I will bless, and multiply blessings upon them.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:32     And this is the beginning of the stewardship which I have appointed them, for them and their seed after them.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:33     And, inasmuch as they are faithful, I will multiply blessings upon them and their seed after them, even a multiplicity of blessings.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:34     And again, let my servant John Johnson have the house in which he lives, and the inheritance, all save the ground which has been reserved for the building of my houses, which pertains to that inheritance, and those lots which have been named for my servant Oliver Cowdery.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:35     And inasmuch as he is faithful, I will multiply blessings upon him.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:36     And it is my will that he should sell the lots that are laid off for the building up of the city of my saints, inasmuch as it shall be made known to him by the voice of the Spirit, and according to the counsel of the order, and by the voice of the order.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:37     And this is the beginning of the stewardship which I have appointed unto him, for a blessing unto him and his seed after him.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:38     And inasmuch as he is faithful, I will multiply a multiplicity of blessings upon him.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:39     And again, let my servant Newel K. Whitney have appointed unto him the houses and lot where he now resides, and the lot and building on which the mercantile establishment stands, and also the lot which is on the corner south of the mercantile establishment, and also the lot on which the ashery is situated.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:40     And all this I have appointed unto my servant Newel K. Whitney for his stewardship, for a blessing upon him and his seed after him, for the benefit of the mercantile establishment of my order which I have established for my stake in the land of Kirtland.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:41     Yea, verily, this is the stewardship which I have appointed unto my servant N. K. Whitney, even this whole mercantile establishment, him and his agent, and his seed after him.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:42     And inasmuch as he is faithful in keeping my commandments, which I have given unto him, I will multiply blessings upon him and his seed after him, even a multiplicity of blessings.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:43     And again, let my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., have appointed unto him the lot which is laid off for the building of my house, which is forty rods long and twelve wide, and also the inheritance upon which his father now resides;
Doctrine and Covenants 104:44     And this is the beginning of the stewardship which I have appointed unto him, for a blessing upon him, and upon his father.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:45     For behold, I have reserved an inheritance for his father, for his support; therefore he shall be reckoned in the house of my servant Joseph Smith, Jun.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:46     And I will multiply blessings upon the house of my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., inasmuch as he is faithful, even a multiplicity of blessings.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:47     And now, a commandment I give unto you concerning Zion, that you shall no longer be bound as a united order to your brethren of Zion, only on this wise--
Doctrine and Covenants 104:48     After you are organized, you shall be called the United Order of the Stake of Zion, the City of Kirtland. And your brethren, after they are organized, shall be called the United Order of the City of Zion.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:49     And they shall be organized in their own names, and in their own name; and they shall do their business in their own name, and in their own names;
Doctrine and Covenants 104:50     And you shall do your business in your own name, and in your own names.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:51     And this I have commanded to be done for your salvation, and also for their salvation, in consequence of their being driven out and that which is to come.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:52     The covenants being broken through transgression, by covetousness and feigned words--
Doctrine and Covenants 104:53     Therefore, you are dissolved as a united order with your brethren, that you are not bound only up to this hour unto them, only on this wise, as I said, by loan as shall be agreed by this order in council, as your circumstances will admit and the voice of the council direct.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:54     And again, a commandment I give unto you concerning your stewardship which I have appointed unto you.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:55     Behold, all these properties are mine, or else your faith is vain, and ye are found hypocrites, and the covenants which ye have made unto me are broken;
Doctrine and Covenants 104:56     And if the properties are mine, then ye are stewards; otherwise ye are no stewards.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:57     But, verily I say unto you, I have appointed unto you to be stewards over mine house, even stewards indeed.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:58     And for this purpose I have commanded you to organize yourselves, even to print my words, the fulness of my scriptures, the revelations which I have given unto you, and which I shall, hereafter, from time to time give unto you--
Doctrine and Covenants 104:59     For the purpose of building up my church and kingdom on the earth, and to prepare my people for the time when I shall dwell with them, which is nigh at hand.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:60     And ye shall prepare for yourselves a place for a treasury, and consecrate it unto my name.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:61     And ye shall appoint one among you to keep the treasury, and he shall be ordained unto this blessing.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:62     And there shall be a seal upon the treasury, and all the sacred things shall be delivered into the treasury; and no man among you shall call it his own, or any part of it, for it shall belong to you all with one accord.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:63     And I give it unto you from this very hour; and now see to it, that ye go to and make use of the stewardship which I have appointed unto you, exclusive of the sacred things, for the purpose of printing these sacred things as I have said.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:64     And the avails of the sacred things shall be had in the treasury, and a seal shall be upon it; and it shall not be used or taken out of the treasury by any one, neither shall the seal be loosed which shall be placed upon it, only by the voice of the order, or by commandment.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:65     And thus shall ye preserve the avails of the sacred things in the treasury, for sacred and holy purposes.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:66     And this shall be called the sacred treasury of the Lord; and a seal shall be kept upon it that it may be holy and consecrated unto the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:67     And again, there shall be another treasury prepared, and a treasurer appointed to keep the treasury, and a seal shall be placed upon it;
Doctrine and Covenants 104:68     And all moneys that you receive in your stewardships, by improving upon the properties which I have appointed unto you, in houses, or in lands, or in cattle, or in all things save it be the holy and sacred writings, which I have reserved unto myself for holy and sacred purposes, shall be cast into the treasury as fast as you receive moneys, by hundreds, or by fifties, or by twenties, or by tens, or by fives.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:69     Or in other words, if any man among you obtain five dollars let him cast them into the treasury; or if he obtain ten, or twenty, or fifty, or an hundred, let him do likewise;
Doctrine and Covenants 104:70     And let not any among you say that it is his own; for it shall not be called his, nor any part of it.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:71     And there shall not any part of it be used, or taken out of the treasury, only by the voice and common consent of the order.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:72     And this shall be the voice and common consent of the order--that any man among you say to the treasurer: I have need of this to help me in my stewardship--
Doctrine and Covenants 104:73     If it be five dollars, or if it be ten dollars, or twenty, or fifty, or a hundred, the treasurer shall give unto him the sum which he requires to help him in his stewardship--
Doctrine and Covenants 104:74     Until he be found a transgressor, and it is manifest before the council of the order plainly that he is an unfaithful and an unwise steward.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:75     But so long as he is in full fellowship, and is faithful and wise in his stewardship, this shall be his token unto the treasurer that the treasurer shall not withhold.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:76     But in case of transgression, the treasurer shall be subject unto the council and voice of the order.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:77     And in case the treasurer is found an unfaithful and an unwise steward, he shall be subject to the council and voice of the order, and shall be removed out of his place, and another shall be appointed in his stead.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:78     And again, verily I say unto you, concerning your debts--behold it is my will that you shall pay all your debts.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:79     And it is my will that you shall humble yourselves before me, and obtain this blessing by your diligence and humility and the prayer of faith.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:80     And inasmuch as you are diligent and humble, and exercise the prayer of faith, behold, I will soften the hearts of those to whom you are in debt, until I shall send means unto you for your deliverance.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:81     Therefore write speedily to New York and write according to that which shall be dictated by my Spirit; and I will soften the hearts of those to whom you are in debt, that it shall be taken away out of their minds to bring affliction upon you.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:82     And inasmuch as ye are humble and faithful and call upon my name, behold, I will give you the victory.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:83     I give unto you a promise, that you shall be delivered this once out of your bondage.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:84     Inasmuch as you obtain a chance to loan money by hundreds, or thousands, even until you shall loan enough to deliver yourself from bondage, it is your privilege.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:85     And pledge the properties which I have put into your hands, this once, by giving your names by common consent or otherwise, as it shall seem good unto you.
Doctrine and Covenants 104:86     I give unto you this privilege, this once; and behold, if you proceed to do the things which I have laid before you, according to my commandments, all these things are mine, and ye are my stewards, and the master will not suffer his house to be broken up. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 105:1     Verily I say unto you who have assembled yourselves together that you may learn my will concerning the redemption of mine afflicted people--
Doctrine and Covenants 105:2     Behold, I say unto you, were it not for the transgressions of my people, speaking concerning the church and not individuals, they might have been redeemed even now.
Doctrine and Covenants 105:3     But behold, they have not learned to be obedient to the things which I required at their hands, but are full of all manner of evil, and do not impart of their substance, as becometh saints, to the poor and afflicted among them;
Doctrine and Covenants 105:4     And are not united according to the union required by the law of the celestial kingdom;
Doctrine and Covenants 105:5     And Zion cannot be built up unless it is by the principles of the law of the celestial kingdom; otherwise I cannot receive her unto myself.
Doctrine and Covenants 105:6     And my people must needs be chastened until they learn obedience, if it must needs be, by the things which they suffer.
Doctrine and Covenants 105:7     I speak not concerning those who are appointed to lead my people, who are the first elders of my church, for they are not all under this condemnation;
Doctrine and Covenants 105:8     But I speak concerning my churches abroad--there are many who will say: Where is their God? Behold, he will deliver them in time of trouble, otherwise we will not go up unto Zion, and will keep our moneys.
Doctrine and Covenants 105:9     Therefore, in consequence of the transgressions of my people, it is expedient in me that mine elders should wait for a little season for the redemption of Zion--
Doctrine and Covenants 105:10     That they themselves may be prepared, and that my people may be taught more perfectly, and have experience, and know more perfectly concerning their duty, and the things which I require at their hands.
Doctrine and Covenants 105:11     And this cannot be brought to pass until mine elders are endowed with power from on high.
Doctrine and Covenants 105:12     For behold, I have prepared a great endowment and blessing to be poured out upon them, inasmuch as they are faithful and continue in humility before me.
Doctrine and Covenants 105:13     Therefore it is expedient in me that mine elders should wait for a little season, for the redemption of Zion.
Doctrine and Covenants 105:14     For behold, I do not require at their hands to fight the battles of Zion; for, as I said in a former commandment, even so will I fulfil--I will fight your battles.
Doctrine and Covenants 105:15     Behold, the destroyer I have sent forth to destroy and lay waste mine enemies; and not many years hence they shall not be left to pollute mine heritage, and to blaspheme my name upon the lands which I have consecrated for the gathering together of my saints.
Doctrine and Covenants 105:16     Behold, I have commanded my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., to say unto the strength of my house, even my warriors, my young men, and middle-aged, to gather together for the redemption of my people, and throw down the towers of mine enemies, and scatter their watchmen;
Doctrine and Covenants 105:17     But the strength of mine house have not hearkened unto my words.
Doctrine and Covenants 105:18     But inasmuch as there are those who have hearkened unto my words, I have prepared a blessing and an endowment for them, if they continue faithful.
Doctrine and Covenants 105:19     I have heard their prayers, and will accept their offering; and it is expedient in me that they should be brought thus far for a trial of their faith.
Doctrine and Covenants 105:20     And now, verily I say unto you, a commandment I give unto you, that as many as have come up hither, that can stay in the region round about, let them stay;
Doctrine and Covenants 105:21     And those that cannot stay, who have families in the east, let them tarry for a little season, inasmuch as my servant Joseph shall appoint unto them;
Doctrine and Covenants 105:22     For I will counsel him concerning this matter, and all things whatsoever he shall appoint unto them shall be fulfilled.
Doctrine and Covenants 105:23     And let all my people who dwell in the regions round about be very faithful, and prayerful, and humble before me, and reveal not the things which I have revealed unto them, until it is wisdom in me that they should be revealed.
Doctrine and Covenants 105:24     Talk not of judgments, neither boast of faith nor of mighty works, but carefully gather together, as much in one region as can be, consistently with the feelings of the people;
Doctrine and Covenants 105:25     And behold, I will give unto you favor and grace in their eyes, that you may rest in peace and safety, while you are saying unto the people: Execute judgment and justice for us according to law, and redress us of our wrongs.
Doctrine and Covenants 105:26     Now, behold, I say unto you, my friends, in this way you may find favor in the eyes of the people, until the army of Israel becomes very great.
Doctrine and Covenants 105:27     And I will soften the hearts of the people, as I did the heart of Pharaoh, from time to time, until my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., and mine elders, whom I have appointed, shall have time to gather up the strength of my house,
Doctrine and Covenants 105:28     And to have sent wise men, to fulfil that which I have commanded concerning the purchasing of all the lands in Jackson county that can be purchased, and in the adjoining counties round about.
Doctrine and Covenants 105:29     For it is my will that these lands should be purchased; and after they are purchased that my saints should possess them according to the laws of consecration which I have given.
Doctrine and Covenants 105:30     And after these lands are purchased, I will hold the armies of Israel guiltless in taking possession of their own lands, which they have previously purchased with their moneys, and of throwing down the towers of mine enemies that may be upon them, and scattering their watchmen, and avenging me of mine enemies unto the third and fourth generation of them that hate me.
Doctrine and Covenants 105:31     But first let my army become very great, and let it be sanctified before me, that it may become fair as the sun, and clear as the moon, and that her banners may be terrible unto all nations;
Doctrine and Covenants 105:32     That the kingdoms of this world may be constrained to acknowledge that the kingdom of Zion is in very deed the kingdom of our God and his Christ; therefore, let us become subject unto her laws.
Doctrine and Covenants 105:33     Verily I say unto you, it is expedient in me that the first elders of my church should receive their endowment from on high in my house, which I have commanded to be built unto my name in the land of Kirtland.
Doctrine and Covenants 105:34     And let those commandments which I have given concerning Zion and her law be executed and fulfilled, after her redemption.
Doctrine and Covenants 105:35     There has been a day of calling, but the time has come for a day of choosing; and let those be chosen that are worthy.
Doctrine and Covenants 105:36     And it shall be manifest unto my servant, by the voice of the Spirit, those that are chosen; and they shall be sanctified;
Doctrine and Covenants 105:37     And inasmuch as they follow the counsel which they receive, they shall have power after many days to accomplish all things pertaining to Zion.
Doctrine and Covenants 105:38     And again I say unto you, sue for peace, not only to the people that have smitten you, but also to all people;
Doctrine and Covenants 105:39     And lift up an ensign of peace, and make a proclamation of peace unto the ends of the earth;
Doctrine and Covenants 105:40     And make proposals for peace unto those who have smitten you, according to the voice of the Spirit which is in you, and all things shall work together for your good.
Doctrine and Covenants 105:41     Therefore, be faithful; and behold, and lo, I am with you even unto the end. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 106:1     It is my will that my servant Warren A. Cowdery should be appointed and ordained a presiding high priest over my church, in the land of Freedom and the regions round about;
Doctrine and Covenants 106:2     And should preach my everlasting gospel, and lift up his voice and warn the people, not only in his own place, but in the adjoining counties;
Doctrine and Covenants 106:3     And devote his whole time to this high and holy calling, which I now give unto him, seeking diligently the kingdom of heaven and its righteousness, and all things necessary shall be added thereunto; for the laborer is worthy of his hire.
Doctrine and Covenants 106:4     And again, verily I say unto you, the coming of the Lord draweth nigh, and it overtaketh the world as a thief in the night--
Doctrine and Covenants 106:5     Therefore, gird up your loins, that you may be the children of light, and that day shall not overtake you as a thief.
Doctrine and Covenants 106:6     And again, verily I say unto you, there was joy in heaven when my servant Warren bowed to my scepter, and separated himself from the crafts of men;
Doctrine and Covenants 106:7     Therefore, blessed is my servant Warren, for I will have mercy on him; and, notwithstanding the vanity of his heart, I will lift him up inasmuch as he will humble himself before me.
Doctrine and Covenants 106:8     And I will give him grace and assurance wherewith he may stand; and if he continue to be a faithful witness and a light unto the church I have prepared a crown for him in the mansions of my Father. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:1     There are, in the church, two priesthoods, namely, the Melchizedek and Aaronic, including the Levitical Priesthood.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:2     Why the first is called the Melchizedek Priesthood is because Melchizedek was such a great high priest.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:3     Before his day it was called the Holy Priesthood, after the Order of the Son of God.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:4     But out of respect or reverence to the name of the Supreme Being, to avoid the too frequent repetition of his name, they, the church, in ancient days, called that priesthood after Melchizedek, or the Melchizedek Priesthood.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:5     All other authorities or offices in the church are appendages to this priesthood.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:6     But there are two divisions or grand heads--one is the Melchizedek Priesthood, and the other is the Aaronic or Levitical Priesthood.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:7     The office of an elder comes under the priesthood of Melchizedek.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:8     The Melchizedek Priesthood holds the right of presidency, and has power and authority over all the offices in the church in all ages of the world, to administer in spiritual things.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:9     The Presidency of the High Priesthood, after the order of Melchizedek, have a right to officiate in all the offices in the church.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:10     High priests after the order of the Melchizedek Priesthood have a right to officiate in their own standing, under the direction of the presidency, in administering spiritual things, and also in the office of an elder, priest (of the Levitical order), teacher, deacon, and member.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:11     An elder has a right to officiate in his stead when the high priest is not present.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:12     The high priest and elder are to administer in spiritual things, agreeable to the covenants and commandments of the church; and they have a right to officiate in all these offices of the church when there are no higher authorities present.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:13     The second priesthood is called the Priesthood of Aaron, because it was conferred upon Aaron and his seed, throughout all their generations.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:14     Why it is called the lesser priesthood is because it is an appendage to the greater, or the Melchizedek Priesthood, and has power in administering outward ordinances.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:15     The bishopric is the presidency of this priesthood, and holds the keys or authority of the same.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:16     No man has a legal right to this office, to hold the keys of this priesthood, except he be a literal descendant of Aaron.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:17     But as a high priest of the Melchizedek Priesthood has authority to officiate in all the lesser offices, he may officiate in the office of bishop when no literal descendant of Aaron can be found, provided he is called and set apart and ordained unto this power by the hands of the Presidency of the Melchizedek Priesthood.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:18     The power and authority of the higher, or Melchizedek Priesthood, is to hold the keys of all the spiritual blessings of the church--
Doctrine and Covenants 107:19     To have the privilege of receiving the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, to have the heavens opened unto them, to commune with the general assembly and church of the Firstborn, and to enjoy the communion and presence of God the Father, and Jesus the mediator of the new covenant.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:20     The power and authority of the lesser, or Aaronic Priesthood, is to hold the keys of the ministering of angels, and to administer in outward ordinances, the letter of the gospel, the baptism of repentance for the remission of sins, agreeable to the covenants and commandments.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:21     Of necessity there are presidents, or presiding officers growing out of, or appointed of or from among those who are ordained to the several offices in these two priesthoods.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:22     Of the Melchizedek Priesthood, three Presiding High Priests, chosen by the body, appointed and ordained to that office, and upheld by the confidence, faith, and prayer of the church, form a quorum of the Presidency of the Church.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:23     The twelve traveling councilors are called to be the Twelve Apostles, or special witnesses of the name of Christ in all the world--thus differing from other officers in the church in the duties of their calling.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:24     And they form a quorum, equal in authority and power to the three presidents previously mentioned.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:25     The Seventy are also called to preach the gospel, and to be especial witnesses unto the Gentiles and in all the world--thus differing from other officers in the church in the duties of their calling.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:26     And they form a quorum, equal in authority to that of the Twelve special witnesses or Apostles just named.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:27     And every decision made by either of these quorums must be by the unanimous voice of the same; that is, every member in each quorum must be agreed to its decisions, in order to make their decisions of the same power or validity one with the other--
Doctrine and Covenants 107:28     A majority may form a quorum when circumstances render it impossible to be otherwise--
Doctrine and Covenants 107:29     Unless this is the case, their decisions are not entitled to the same blessings which the decisions of a quorum of three presidents were anciently, who were ordained after the order of Melchizedek, and were righteous and holy men.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:30     The decisions of these quorums, or either of them, are to be made in all righteousness, in holiness, and lowliness of heart, meekness and long-suffering, and in faith, and virtue, and knowledge, temperance, patience, godliness, brotherly kindness and charity;
Doctrine and Covenants 107:31     Because the promise is, if these things abound in them they shall not be unfruitful in the knowledge of the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:32     And in case that any decision of these quorums is made in unrighteousness, it may be brought before a general assembly of the several quorums, which constitute the spiritual authorities of the church; otherwise there can be no appeal from their decision.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:33     The Twelve are a Traveling Presiding High Council, to officiate in the name of the Lord, under the direction of the Presidency of the Church, agreeable to the institution of heaven; to build up the church, and regulate all the affairs of the same in all nations, first unto the Gentiles and secondly unto the Jews.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:34     The Seventy are to act in the name of the Lord, under the direction of the Twelve or the traveling high council, in building up the church and regulating all the affairs of the same in all nations, first unto the Gentiles and then to the Jews--
Doctrine and Covenants 107:35     The Twelve being sent out, holding the keys, to open the door by the proclamation of the gospel of Jesus Christ, and first unto the Gentiles and then unto the Jews.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:36     The standing high councils, at the stakes of Zion, form a quorum equal in authority in the affairs of the church, in all their decisions, to the quorum of the presidency, or to the traveling high council.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:37     The high council in Zion form a quorum equal in authority in the affairs of the church, in all their decisions, to the councils of the Twelve at the stakes of Zion.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:38     It is the duty of the traveling high council to call upon the Seventy, when they need assistance, to fill the several calls for preaching and administering the gospel, instead of any others.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:39     It is the duty of the Twelve, in all large branches of the church, to ordain evangelical ministers, as they shall be designated unto them by revelation--
Doctrine and Covenants 107:40     The order of this priesthood was confirmed to be handed down from father to son, and rightly belongs to the literal descendants of the chosen seed, to whom the promises were made.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:41     This order was instituted in the days of Adam, and came down by lineage in the following manner:
Doctrine and Covenants 107:42     From Adam to Seth, who was ordained by Adam at the age of sixty-nine years, and was blessed by him three years previous to his (Adam's) death, and received the promise of God by his father, that his posterity should be the chosen of the Lord, and that they should be preserved unto the end of the earth;
Doctrine and Covenants 107:43     Because he (Seth) was a perfect man, and his likeness was the express likeness of his father, insomuch that he seemed to be like unto his father in all things, and could be distinguished from him only by his age.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:44     Enos was ordained at the age of one hundred and thirty-four years and four months, by the hand of Adam.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:45     God called upon Cainan in the wilderness in the fortieth year of his age; and he met Adam in journeying to the place Shedolamak. He was eighty-seven years old when he received his ordination.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:46     Mahalaleel was four hundred and ninety-six years and seven days old when he was ordained by the hand of Adam, who also blessed him.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:47     Jared was two hundred years old when he was ordained under the hand of Adam, who also blessed him.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:48     Enoch was twenty-five years old when he was ordained under the hand of Adam; and he was sixty-five and Adam blessed him.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:49     And he saw the Lord, and he walked with him, and was before his face continually; and he walked with God three hundred and sixty-five years, making him four hundred and thirty years old when he was translated.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:50     Methuselah was one hundred years old when he was ordained under the hand of Adam.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:51     Lamech was thirty-two years old when he was ordained under the hand of Seth.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:52     Noah was ten years old when he was ordained under the hand of Methuselah.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:53     Three years previous to the death of Adam, he called Seth, Enos, Cainan, Mahalaleel, Jared, Enoch, and Methuselah, who were all high priests, with the residue of his posterity who were righteous, into the valley of Adam-ondi-Ahman, and there bestowed upon them his last blessing.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:54     And the Lord appeared unto them, and they rose up and blessed Adam, and called him Michael, the prince, the archangel.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:55     And the Lord administered comfort unto Adam, and said unto him: I have set thee to be at the head; a multitude of nations shall come of thee, and thou art a prince over them forever.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:56     And Adam stood up in the midst of the congregation; and, notwithstanding he was bowed down with age, being full of the Holy Ghost, predicted whatsoever should befall his posterity unto the latest generation.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:57     These things were all written in the book of Enoch, and are to be testified of in due time.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:58     It is the duty of the Twelve, also, to ordain and set in order all the other officers of the church, agreeable to the revelation which says:
Doctrine and Covenants 107:59     To the church of Christ in the land of Zion, in addition to the church laws respecting church business--
Doctrine and Covenants 107:60     Verily, I say unto you, saith the Lord of Hosts, there must needs be presiding elders to preside over those who are of the office of an elder;
Doctrine and Covenants 107:61     And also priests to preside over those who are of the office of a priest;
Doctrine and Covenants 107:62     And also teachers to preside over those who are of the office of a teacher, in like manner, and also the deacons--
Doctrine and Covenants 107:63     Wherefore, from deacon to teacher, and from teacher to priest, and from priest to elder, severally as they are appointed, according to the covenants and commandments of the church.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:64     Then comes the High Priesthood, which is the greatest of all.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:65     Wherefore, it must needs be that one be appointed of the High Priesthood to preside over the priesthood, and he shall be called President of the High Priesthood of the Church;
Doctrine and Covenants 107:66     Or, in other words, the Presiding High Priest over the High Priesthood of the Church.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:67     From the same comes the administering of ordinances and blessings upon the church, by the laying on of the hands.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:68     Wherefore, the office of a bishop is not equal unto it; for the office of a bishop is in administering all temporal things;
Doctrine and Covenants 107:69     Nevertheless a bishop must be chosen from the High Priesthood, unless he is a literal descendant of Aaron;
Doctrine and Covenants 107:70     For unless he is a literal descendant of Aaron he cannot hold the keys of that priesthood.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:71     Nevertheless, a high priest, that is, after the order of Melchizedek, may be set apart unto the ministering of temporal things, having a knowledge of them by the Spirit of truth;
Doctrine and Covenants 107:72     And also to be a judge in Israel, to do the business of the church, to sit in judgment upon transgressors upon testimony as it shall be laid before him according to the laws, by the assistance of his counselors, whom he has chosen or will choose among the elders of the church.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:73     This is the duty of a bishop who is not a literal descendant of Aaron, but has been ordained to the High Priesthood after the order of Melchizedek.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:74     Thus shall he be a judge, even a common judge among the inhabitants of Zion, or in a stake of Zion, or in any branch of the church where he shall be set apart unto this ministry, until the borders of Zion are enlarged and it becomes necessary to have other bishops or judges in Zion or elsewhere.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:75     And inasmuch as there are other bishops appointed they shall act in the same office.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:76     But a literal descendant of Aaron has a legal right to the presidency of this priesthood, to the keys of this ministry, to act in the office of bishop independently, without counselors, except in a case where a President of the High Priesthood, after the order of Melchizedek, is tried, to sit as a judge in Israel.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:77     And the decision of either of these councils, agreeable to the commandment which says:
Doctrine and Covenants 107:78     Again, verily, I say unto you, the most important business of the church, and the most difficult cases of the church, inasmuch as there is not satisfaction upon the decision of the bishop or judges, it shall be handed over and carried up unto the council of the church, before the Presidency of the High Priesthood.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:79     And the Presidency of the council of the High Priesthood shall have power to call other high priests, even twelve, to assist as counselors; and thus the Presidency of the High Priesthood and its counselors shall have power to decide upon testimony according to the laws of the church.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:80     And after this decision it shall be had in remembrance no more before the Lord; for this is the highest council of the church of God, and a final decision upon controversies in spiritual matters.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:81     There is not any person belonging to the church who is exempt from this council of the church.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:82     And inasmuch as a President of the High Priesthood shall transgress, he shall be had in remembrance before the common council of the church, who shall be assisted by twelve counselors of the High Priesthood;
Doctrine and Covenants 107:83     And their decision upon his head shall be an end of controversy concerning him.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:84     Thus, none shall be exempted from the justice and the laws of God, that all things may be done in order and in solemnity before him, according to truth and righteousness.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:85     And again, verily I say unto you, the duty of a president over the office of a deacon is to preside over twelve deacons, to sit in council with them, and to teach them their duty, edifying one another, as it is given according to the covenants.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:86     And also the duty of the president over the office of the teachers is to preside over twenty-four of the teachers, and to sit in council with them, teaching them the duties of their office, as given in the covenants.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:87     Also the duty of the president over the Priesthood of Aaron is to preside over forty-eight priests, and sit in council with them, to teach them the duties of their office, as is given in the covenants--
Doctrine and Covenants 107:88     This president is to be a bishop; for this is one of the duties of this priesthood.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:89     Again, the duty of the president over the office of elders is to preside over ninety-six elders, and to sit in council with them, and to teach them according to the covenants.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:90     This presidency is a distinct one from that of the seventy, and is designed for those who do not travel into all the world.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:91     And again, the duty of the President of the office of the High Priesthood is to preside over the whole church, and to be like unto Moses--
Doctrine and Covenants 107:92     Behold, here is wisdom; yea, to be a seer, a revelator, a translator, and a prophet, having all the gifts of God which he bestows upon the head of the church.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:93     And it is according to the vision showing the order of the Seventy, that they should have seven presidents to preside over them, chosen out of the number of the seventy;
Doctrine and Covenants 107:94     And the seventh president of these presidents is to preside over the six;
Doctrine and Covenants 107:95     And these seven presidents are to choose other seventy besides the first seventy to whom they belong, and are to preside over them;
Doctrine and Covenants 107:96     And also other seventy, until seven times seventy, if the labor in the vineyard of necessity requires it.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:97     And these seventy are to be traveling ministers, unto the Gentiles first and also unto the Jews.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:98     Whereas other officers of the church, who belong not unto the Twelve, neither to the Seventy, are not under the responsibility to travel among all nations, but are to travel as their circumstances shall allow, notwithstanding they may hold as high and responsible offices in the church.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:99     Wherefore, now let every man learn his duty, and to act in the office in which he is appointed, in all diligence.
Doctrine and Covenants 107:100     He that is slothful shall not be counted worthy to stand, and he that learns not his duty and shows himself not approved shall not be counted worthy to stand. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 108:1     Verily thus saith the Lord unto you, my servant Lyman: Your sins are forgiven you, because you have obeyed my voice in coming up hither this morning to receive counsel of him whom I have appointed.
Doctrine and Covenants 108:2     Therefore, let your soul be at rest concerning your spiritual standing, and resist no more my voice.
Doctrine and Covenants 108:3     And arise up and be more careful henceforth in observing your vows, which you have made and do make, and you shall be blessed with exceeding great blessings.
Doctrine and Covenants 108:4     Wait patiently until the solemn assembly shall be called of my servants, then you shall be remembered with the first of mine elders, and receive right by ordination with the rest of mine elders whom I have chosen.
Doctrine and Covenants 108:5     Behold, this is the promise of the Father unto you if you continue faithful.
Doctrine and Covenants 108:6     And it shall be fulfilled upon you in that day that you shall have right to preach my gospel wheresoever I shall send you, from henceforth from that time.
Doctrine and Covenants 108:7     Therefore, strengthen your brethren in all your conversation, in all your prayers, in all your exhortations, and in all your doings.
Doctrine and Covenants 108:8     And behold, and lo, I am with you to bless you and deliver you forever. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 109:1     Thanks be to thy name, O Lord God of Israel, who keepest covenant and showest mercy unto thy servants who walk uprightly before thee, with all their hearts--
Doctrine and Covenants 109:2     Thou who hast commanded thy servants to build a house to thy name in this place [Kirtland].
Doctrine and Covenants 109:3     And now thou beholdest, O Lord, that thy servants have done according to thy commandment.
Doctrine and Covenants 109:4     And now we ask thee, Holy Father, in the name of Jesus Christ, the Son of thy bosom, in whose name alone salvation can be administered to the children of men, we ask thee, O Lord, to accept of this house, the workmanship of the hands of us, thy servants, which thou didst command us to build.
Doctrine and Covenants 109:5     For thou knowest that we have done this work through great tribulation; and out of our poverty we have given of our substance to build a house to thy name, that the Son of Man might have a place to manifest himself to his people.
Doctrine and Covenants 109:6     And as thou hast said in a revelation, given to us, calling us thy friends, saying--Call your solemn assembly, as I have commanded you;
Doctrine and Covenants 109:7     And as all have not faith, seek ye diligently and teach one another words of wisdom; yea, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom, seek learning even by study and also by faith;
Doctrine and Covenants 109:8     Organize yourselves; prepare every needful thing, and establish a house, even a house of prayer, a house of fasting, a house of faith, a house of learning, a house of glory, a house of order, a house of God;
Doctrine and Covenants 109:9     That your incomings may be in the name of the Lord, that your outgoings may be in the name of the Lord, that all your salutations may be in the name of the Lord, with uplifted hands unto the Most High--
Doctrine and Covenants 109:10     And now, Holy Father, we ask thee to assist us, thy people, with thy grace, in calling our solemn assembly, that it may be done to thine honor and to thy divine acceptance;
Doctrine and Covenants 109:11     And in a manner that we may be found worthy, in thy sight, to secure a fulfilment of the promises which thou hast made unto us, thy people, in the revelations given unto us;
Doctrine and Covenants 109:12     That thy glory may rest down upon thy people, and upon this thy house, which we now dedicate to thee, that it may be sanctified and consecrated to be holy, and that thy holy presence may be continually in this house;
Doctrine and Covenants 109:13     And that all people who shall enter upon the threshold of the Lord's house may feel thy power, and feel constrained to acknowledge that thou hast sanctified it, and that it is thy house, a place of thy holiness.
Doctrine and Covenants 109:14     And do thou grant, Holy Father, that all those who shall worship in this house may be taught words of wisdom out of the best books, and that they may seek learning even by study, and also by faith, as thou hast said;
Doctrine and Covenants 109:15     And that they may grow up in thee, and receive a fulness of the Holy Ghost, and be organized according to thy laws, and be prepared to obtain every needful thing;
Doctrine and Covenants 109:16     And that this house may be a house of prayer, a house of fasting, a house of faith, a house of glory and of God, even thy house;
Doctrine and Covenants 109:17     That all the incomings of thy people, into this house, may be in the name of the Lord;
Doctrine and Covenants 109:18     That all their outgoings from this house may be in the name of the Lord;
Doctrine and Covenants 109:19     And that all their salutations may be in the name of the Lord, with holy hands, uplifted to the Most High;
Doctrine and Covenants 109:20     And that no unclean thing shall be permitted to come into thy house to pollute it;
Doctrine and Covenants 109:21     And when thy people transgress, any of them, they may speedily repent and return unto thee, and find favor in thy sight, and be restored to the blessings which thou hast ordained to be poured out upon those who shall reverence thee in thy house.
Doctrine and Covenants 109:22     And we ask thee, Holy Father, that thy servants may go forth from this house armed with thy power, and that thy name may be upon them, and thy glory be round about them, and thine angels have charge over them;
Doctrine and Covenants 109:23     And from this place they may bear exceedingly great and glorious tidings, in truth, unto the ends of the earth, that they may know that this is thy work, and that thou hast put forth thy hand, to fulfil that which thou hast spoken by the mouths of the prophets, concerning the last days.
Doctrine and Covenants 109:24     We ask thee, Holy Father, to establish the people that shall worship, and honorably hold a name and standing in this thy house, to all generations and for eternity;
Doctrine and Covenants 109:25     That no weapon formed against them shall prosper; that he who diggeth a pit for them shall fall into the same himself;
Doctrine and Covenants 109:26     That no combination of wickedness shall have power to rise up and prevail over thy people upon whom thy name shall be put in this house;
Doctrine and Covenants 109:27     And if any people shall rise against this people, that thine anger be kindled against them;
Doctrine and Covenants 109:28     And if they shall smite this people thou wilt smite them; thou wilt fight for thy people as thou didst in the day of battle, that they may be delivered from the hands of all their enemies.
Doctrine and Covenants 109:29     We ask thee, Holy Father, to confound, and astonish, and to bring to shame and confusion, all those who have spread lying reports abroad, over the world, against thy servant or servants, if they will not repent, when the everlasting gospel shall be proclaimed in their ears;
Doctrine and Covenants 109:30     And that all their works may be brought to naught, and be swept away by the hail, and by the judgments which thou wilt send upon them in thine anger, that there may be an end to lyings and slanders against thy people.
Doctrine and Covenants 109:31     For thou knowest, O Lord, that thy servants have been innocent before thee in bearing record of thy name, for which they have suffered these things.
Doctrine and Covenants 109:32     Therefore we plead before thee for a full and complete deliverance from under this yoke;
Doctrine and Covenants 109:33     Break it off, O Lord; break it off from the necks of thy servants, by thy power, that we may rise up in the midst of this generation and do thy work.
Doctrine and Covenants 109:34     O Jehovah, have mercy upon this people, and as all men sin, forgive the transgressions of thy people, and let them be blotted out forever.
Doctrine and Covenants 109:35     Let the anointing of thy ministers be sealed upon them with power from on high.
Doctrine and Covenants 109:36     Let it be fulfilled upon them, as upon those on the day of Pentecost; let the gift of tongues be poured out upon thy people, even cloven tongues as of fire, and the interpretation thereof.
Doctrine and Covenants 109:37     And let thy house be filled, as with a rushing mighty wind, with thy glory.
Doctrine and Covenants 109:38     Put upon thy servants the testimony of the covenant, that when they go out and proclaim thy word they may seal up the law, and prepare the hearts of thy saints for all those judgments thou art about to send, in thy wrath, upon the inhabitants of the earth, because of their transgressions, that thy people may not faint in the day of trouble.
Doctrine and Covenants 109:39     And whatsoever city thy servants shall enter, and the people of that city receive their testimony, let thy peace and thy salvation be upon that city; that they may gather out of that city the righteous, that they may come forth to Zion, or to her stakes, the places of thine appointment, with songs of everlasting joy;
Doctrine and Covenants 109:40     And until this be accomplished, let not thy judgments fall upon that city.
Doctrine and Covenants 109:41     And whatsoever city thy servants shall enter, and the people of that city receive not the testimony of thy servants, and thy servants warn them to save themselves from this untoward generation, let it be upon that city according to that which thou hast spoken by the mouths of thy prophets.
Doctrine and Covenants 109:42     But deliver thou, O Jehovah, we beseech thee, thy servants from their hands, and cleanse them from their blood.
Doctrine and Covenants 109:43     O Lord, we delight not in the destruction of our fellow men; their souls are precious before thee;
Doctrine and Covenants 109:44     But thy word must be fulfilled. Help thy servants to say, with thy grace assisting them: Thy will be done, O Lord, and not ours.
Doctrine and Covenants 109:45     We know that thou hast spoken by the mouth of thy prophets terrible things concerning the wicked, in the last days--that thou wilt pour out thy judgments, without measure;
Doctrine and Covenants 109:46     Therefore, O Lord, deliver thy people from the calamity of the wicked; enable thy servants to seal up the law, and bind up the testimony, that they may be prepared against the day of burning.
Doctrine and Covenants 109:47     We ask thee, Holy Father, to remember those who have been driven by the inhabitants of Jackson county, Missouri, from the lands of their inheritance, and break off, O Lord, this yoke of affliction that has been put upon them.
Doctrine and Covenants 109:48     Thou knowest, O Lord, that they have been greatly oppressed and afflicted by wicked men; and our hearts flow out with sorrow because of their grievous burdens.
Doctrine and Covenants 109:49     O Lord, how long wilt thou suffer this people to bear this affliction, and the cries of their innocent ones to ascend up in thine ears, and their blood come up in testimony before thee, and not make a display of thy testimony in their behalf?
Doctrine and Covenants 109:50     Have mercy, O Lord, upon the wicked mob, who have driven thy people, that they may cease to spoil, that they may repent of their sins if repentance is to be found;
Doctrine and Covenants 109:51     But if they will not, make bare thine arm, O Lord, and redeem that which thou didst appoint a Zion unto thy people.
Doctrine and Covenants 109:52     And if it cannot be otherwise, that the cause of thy people may not fail before thee may thine anger be kindled, and thine indignation fall upon them, that they may be wasted away, both root and branch, from under heaven;
Doctrine and Covenants 109:53     But inasmuch as they will repent, thou art gracious and merciful, and wilt turn away thy wrath when thou lookest upon the face of thine Anointed.
Doctrine and Covenants 109:54     Have mercy, O Lord, upon all the nations of the earth; have mercy upon the rulers of our land; may those principles, which were so honorably and nobly defended, namely, the Constitution of our land, by our fathers, be established forever.
Doctrine and Covenants 109:55     Remember the kings, the princes, the nobles, and the great ones of the earth, and all people, and the churches, all the poor, the needy, and afflicted ones of the earth;
Doctrine and Covenants 109:56     That their hearts may be softened when thy servants shall go out from thy house, O Jehovah, to bear testimony of thy name; that their prejudices may give way before the truth, and thy people may obtain favor in the sight of all;
Doctrine and Covenants 109:57     That all the ends of the earth may know that we, thy servants, have heard thy voice, and that thou hast sent us;
Doctrine and Covenants 109:58     That from among all these, thy servants, the sons of Jacob, may gather out the righteous to build a holy city to thy name, as thou hast commanded them.
Doctrine and Covenants 109:59     We ask thee to appoint unto Zion other stakes besides this one which thou hast appointed, that the gathering of thy people may roll on in great power and majesty, that thy work may be cut short in righteousness.
Doctrine and Covenants 109:60     Now these words, O Lord, we have spoken before thee, concerning the revelations and commandments which thou hast given unto us, who are identified with the Gentiles.
Doctrine and Covenants 109:61     But thou knowest that thou hast a great love for the children of Jacob, who have been scattered upon the mountains for a long time, in a cloudy and dark day.
Doctrine and Covenants 109:62     We therefore ask thee to have mercy upon the children of Jacob, that Jerusalem, from this hour, may begin to be redeemed;
Doctrine and Covenants 109:63     And the yoke of bondage may begin to be broken off from the house of David;
Doctrine and Covenants 109:64     And the children of Judah may begin to return to the lands which thou didst give to Abraham, their father.
Doctrine and Covenants 109:65     And cause that the remnants of Jacob, who have been cursed and smitten because of their transgression, be converted from their wild and savage condition to the fulness of the everlasting gospel;
Doctrine and Covenants 109:66     That they may lay down their weapons of bloodshed, and cease their rebellions.
Doctrine and Covenants 109:67     And may all the scattered remnants of Israel, who have been driven to the ends of the earth, come to a knowledge of the truth, believe in the Messiah, and be redeemed from oppression, and rejoice before thee.
Doctrine and Covenants 109:68     O Lord, remember thy servant, Joseph Smith, Jun., and all his afflictions and persecutions--how he has covenanted with Jehovah, and vowed to thee, O Mighty God of Jacob--and the commandments which thou hast given unto him, and that he hath sincerely striven to do thy will.
Doctrine and Covenants 109:69     Have mercy, O Lord, upon his wife and children, that they may be exalted in thy presence, and preserved by thy fostering hand.
Doctrine and Covenants 109:70     Have mercy upon all their immediate connections, that their prejudices may be broken up and swept away as with a flood; that they may be converted and redeemed with Israel, and know that thou art God.
Doctrine and Covenants 109:71     Remember, O Lord, the presidents, even all the presidents of thy church, that thy right hand may exalt them, with all their families, and their immediate connections, that their names may be perpetuated and had in everlasting remembrance from generation to generation.
Doctrine and Covenants 109:72     Remember all thy church, O Lord, with all their families, and all their immediate connections, with all their sick and afflicted ones, with all the poor and meek of the earth; that the kingdom, which thou hast set up without hands, may become a great mountain and fill the whole earth;
Doctrine and Covenants 109:73     That thy church may come forth out of the wilderness of darkness, and shine forth fair as the moon, clear as the sun, and terrible as an army with banners;
Doctrine and Covenants 109:74     And be adorned as a bride for that day when thou shalt unveil the heavens, and cause the mountains to flow down at thy presence, and the valleys to be exalted, the rough places made smooth; that thy glory may fill the earth;
Doctrine and Covenants 109:75     That when the trump shall sound for the dead, we shall be caught up in the cloud to meet thee, that we may ever be with the Lord;
Doctrine and Covenants 109:76     That our garments may be pure, that we may be clothed upon with robes of righteousness, with palms in our hands, and crowns of glory upon our heads, and reap eternal joy for all our sufferings.
Doctrine and Covenants 109:77     O Lord God Almighty, hear us in these our petitions, and answer us from heaven, thy holy habitation, where thou sittest enthroned, with glory, honor, power, majesty, might, dominion, truth, justice, judgment, mercy, and an infinity of fulness, from everlasting to everlasting.
Doctrine and Covenants 109:78     O hear, O hear, O hear us, O Lord! And answer these petitions, and accept the dedication of this house unto thee, the work of our hands, which we have built unto thy name;
Doctrine and Covenants 109:79     And also this church, to put upon it thy name. And help us by the power of thy Spirit, that we may mingle our voices with those bright, shining seraphs around thy throne, with acclamations of praise, singing Hosanna to God and the Lamb!
Doctrine and Covenants 109:80     And let these, thine anointed ones, be clothed with salvation, and thy saints shout aloud for joy. Amen, and Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 110:1     The veil was taken from our minds, and the eyes of our understanding were opened.
Doctrine and Covenants 110:2     We saw the Lord standing upon the breastwork of the pulpit, before us; and under his feet was a paved work of pure gold, in color like amber.
Doctrine and Covenants 110:3     His eyes were as a flame of fire; the hair of his head was white like the pure snow; his countenance shone above the brightness of the sun; and his voice was as the sound of the rushing of great waters, even the voice of Jehovah, saying:
Doctrine and Covenants 110:4     I am the first and the last; I am he who liveth, I am he who was slain; I am your advocate with the Father.
Doctrine and Covenants 110:5     Behold, your sins are forgiven you; you are clean before me; therefore, lift up your heads and rejoice.
Doctrine and Covenants 110:6     Let the hearts of your brethren rejoice, and let the hearts of all my people rejoice, who have, with their might, built this house to my name.
Doctrine and Covenants 110:7     For behold, I have accepted this house, and my name shall be here; and I will manifest myself to my people in mercy in this house.
Doctrine and Covenants 110:8     Yea, I will appear unto my servants, and speak unto them with mine own voice, if my people will keep my commandments, and do not pollute this holy house.
Doctrine and Covenants 110:9     Yea the hearts of thousands and tens of thousands shall greatly rejoice in consequence of the blessings which shall be poured out, and the endowment with which my servants have been endowed in this house.
Doctrine and Covenants 110:10     And the fame of this house shall spread to foreign lands; and this is the beginning of the blessing which shall be poured out upon the heads of my people. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 110:11     After this vision closed, the heavens were again opened unto us; and Moses appeared before us, and committed unto us the keys of the gathering of Israel from the four parts of the earth, and the leading of the ten tribes from the land of the north.
Doctrine and Covenants 110:12     After this, Elias appeared, and committed the dispensation of the gospel of Abraham, saying that in us and our seed all generations after us should be blessed.
Doctrine and Covenants 110:13     After this vision had closed, another great and glorious vision burst upon us; for Elijah the prophet, who was taken to heaven without tasting death, stood before us, and said:
Doctrine and Covenants 110:14     Behold, the time has fully come, which was spoken of by the mouth of Malachi--testifying that he [Elijah] should be sent, before the great and dreadful day of the Lord come--
Doctrine and Covenants 110:15     To turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the children to the fathers, lest the whole earth be smitten with a curse--
Doctrine and Covenants 110:16     Therefore, the keys of this dispensation are committed into your hands; and by this ye may know that the great and dreadful day of the Lord is near, even at the doors.
Doctrine and Covenants 111:1     I, the Lord your God, am not displeased with your coming this journey, notwithstanding your follies.
Doctrine and Covenants 111:2     I have much treasure in this city for you, for the benefit of Zion, and many people in this city, whom I will gather out in due time for the benefit of Zion, through your instrumentality.
Doctrine and Covenants 111:3     Therefore, it is expedient that you should form acquaintance with men in this city, as you shall be led, and as it shall be given you.
Doctrine and Covenants 111:4     And it shall come to pass in due time that I will give this city into your hands, that you shall have power over it, insomuch that they shall not discover your secret parts; and its wealth pertaining to gold and silver shall be yours.
Doctrine and Covenants 111:5     Concern not yourselves about your debts, for I will give you power to pay them.
Doctrine and Covenants 111:6     Concern not yourselves about Zion, for I will deal mercifully with her.
Doctrine and Covenants 111:7     Tarry in this place, and in the regions round about;
Doctrine and Covenants 111:8     And the place where it is my will that you should tarry, for the main, shall be signalized unto you by the peace and power of my Spirit, that shall flow unto you.
Doctrine and Covenants 111:9     This place you may obtain by hire. And inquire diligently concerning the more ancient inhabitants and founders of this city;
Doctrine and Covenants 111:10     For there are more treasures than one for you in this city.
Doctrine and Covenants 111:11     Therefore, be ye as wise as serpents and yet without sin; and I will order all things for your good, as fast as ye are able to receive them. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 112:1     Verily thus saith the Lord unto you my servant Thomas: I have heard thy prayers; and thine alms have come up as a memorial before me, in behalf of those, thy brethren, who were chosen to bear testimony of my name and to send it abroad among all nations, kindreds, tongues, and people, and ordained through the instrumentality of my servants.
Doctrine and Covenants 112:2     Verily I say unto you, there have been some few things in thine heart and with thee with which I, the Lord, was not well pleased.
Doctrine and Covenants 112:3     Nevertheless, inasmuch as thou hast abased thyself thou shalt be exalted; therefore, all thy sins are forgiven thee.
Doctrine and Covenants 112:4     Let thy heart be of good cheer before my face; and thou shalt bear record of my name, not only unto the Gentiles, but also unto the Jews; and thou shalt send forth my word unto the ends of the earth.
Doctrine and Covenants 112:5     Contend thou, therefore, morning by morning; and day after day let thy warning voice go forth; and when the night cometh let not the inhabitants of the earth slumber, because of thy speech.
Doctrine and Covenants 112:6     Let thy habitation be known in Zion, and remove not thy house; for I, the Lord, have a great work for thee to do, in publishing my name among the children of men.
Doctrine and Covenants 112:7     Therefore, gird up thy loins for the work. Let thy feet be shod also, for thou art chosen, and thy path lieth among the mountains, and among many nations.
Doctrine and Covenants 112:8     And by thy word many high ones shall be brought low, and by thy word many low ones shall be exalted.
Doctrine and Covenants 112:9     Thy voice shall be a rebuke unto the transgressor; and at thy rebuke let the tongue of the slanderer cease its perverseness.
Doctrine and Covenants 112:10     Be thou humble; and the Lord thy God shall lead thee by the hand, and give thee answer to thy prayers.
Doctrine and Covenants 112:11     I know thy heart, and have heard thy prayers concerning thy brethren. Be not partial towards them in love above many others, but let thy love be for them as for thyself; and let thy love abound unto all men, and unto all who love my name.
Doctrine and Covenants 112:12     And pray for thy brethren of the Twelve. Admonish them sharply for my name's sake, and let them be admonished for all their sins, and be ye faithful before me unto my name.
Doctrine and Covenants 112:13     And after their temptations, and much tribulation, behold, I, the Lord, will feel after them, and if they harden not their hearts, and stiffen not their necks against me, they shall be converted, and I will heal them.
Doctrine and Covenants 112:14     Now, I say unto you, and what I say unto you, I say unto all the Twelve: Arise and gird up your loins, take up your cross, follow me, and feed my sheep.
Doctrine and Covenants 112:15     Exalt not yourselves; rebel not against my servant Joseph; for verily I say unto you, I am with him, and my hand shall be over him; and the keys which I have given unto him, and also to youward, shall not be taken from him till I come.
Doctrine and Covenants 112:16     Verily I say unto you, my servant Thomas, thou art the man whom I have chosen to hold the keys of my kingdom, as pertaining to the Twelve, abroad among all nations--
Doctrine and Covenants 112:17     That thou mayest be my servant to unlock the door of the kingdom in all places where my servant Joseph, and my servant Sidney, and my servant Hyrum, cannot come;
Doctrine and Covenants 112:18     For on them have I laid the burden of all the churches for a little season.
Doctrine and Covenants 112:19     Wherefore, whithersoever they shall send you, go ye, and I will be with you; and in whatsoever place ye shall proclaim my name an effectual door shall be opened unto you, that they may receive my word.
Doctrine and Covenants 112:20     Whosoever receiveth my word receiveth me, and whosoever receiveth me, receiveth those, the First Presidency, whom I have sent, whom I have made counselors for my name's sake unto you.
Doctrine and Covenants 112:21     And again, I say unto you, that whosoever ye shall send in my name, by the voice of your brethren, the Twelve, duly recommended and authorized by you, shall have power to open the door of my kingdom unto any nation whithersoever ye shall send them--
Doctrine and Covenants 112:22     Inasmuch as they shall humble themselves before me, and abide in my word, and hearken to the voice of my Spirit.
Doctrine and Covenants 112:23     Verily, verily, I say unto you, darkness covereth the earth, and gross darkness the minds of the people, and all flesh has become corrupt before my face.
Doctrine and Covenants 112:24     Behold, vengeance cometh speedily upon the inhabitants of the earth, a day of wrath, a day of burning, a day of desolation, of weeping, of mourning, and of lamentation; and as a whirlwind it shall come upon all the face of the earth, saith the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 112:25     And upon my house shall it begin, and from my house shall it go forth, saith the Lord;
Doctrine and Covenants 112:26     First among those among you, saith the Lord, who have professed to know my name and have not known me, and have blasphemed against me in the midst of my house, saith the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 112:27     Therefore, see to it that ye trouble not yourselves concerning the affairs of my church in this place, saith the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 112:28     But purify your hearts before me; and then go ye into all the world, and preach my gospel unto every creature who has not received it;
Doctrine and Covenants 112:29     And he that believeth and is baptized shall be saved, and he that believeth not, and is not baptized, shall be damned.
Doctrine and Covenants 112:30     For unto you, the Twelve, and those, the First Presidency, who are appointed with you to be your counselors and your leaders, is the power of this priesthood given, for the last days and for the last time, in the which is the dispensation of the fulness of times,
Doctrine and Covenants 112:31     Which power you hold, in connection with all those who have received a dispensation at any time from the beginning of the creation;
Doctrine and Covenants 112:32     For verily I say unto you, the keys of the dispensation, which ye have received, have come down from the fathers, and last of all, being sent down from heaven unto you.
Doctrine and Covenants 112:33     Verily I say unto you, behold how great is your calling. Cleanse your hearts and your garments, lest the blood of this generation be required at your hands.
Doctrine and Covenants 112:34     Be faithful until I come, for I come quickly; and my reward is with me to recompense every man according as his work shall be. I am Alpha and Omega. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 113:1     Who is the Stem of Jesse spoken of in the 1st, 2d, 3d, 4th, and 5th verses of the 11th chapter of Isaiah?
Doctrine and Covenants 113:2     Verily thus saith the Lord: It is Christ.
Doctrine and Covenants 113:3     What is the rod spoken of in the first verse of the 11th chapter of Isaiah, that should come of the Stem of Jesse?
Doctrine and Covenants 113:4     Behold, thus saith the Lord: It is a servant in the hands of Christ, who is partly a descendant of Jesse as well as of Ephraim, or of the house of Joseph, on whom there is laid much power.
Doctrine and Covenants 113:5     What is the root of Jesse spoken of in the 10th verse of the 11th chapter?
Doctrine and Covenants 113:6     Behold, thus saith the Lord, it is a descendant of Jesse, as well as of Joseph, unto whom rightly belongs the priesthood, and the keys of the kingdom, for an ensign, and for the gathering of my people in the last days.
Doctrine and Covenants 113:7     Questions by Elias Higbee: What is meant by the command in Isaiah, 52d chapter, 1st verse, which saith: Put on thy strength, O Zion--and what people had Isaiah reference to?
Doctrine and Covenants 113:8     He had reference to those whom God should call in the last days, who should hold the power of priesthood to bring again Zion, and the redemption of Israel; and to put on her strength is to put on the authority of the priesthood, which she, Zion, has a right to by lineage; also to return to that power which she had lost.
Doctrine and Covenants 113:9     What are we to understand by Zion loosing herself from the bands of her neck; 2d verse?
Doctrine and Covenants 113:10     We are to understand that the scattered remnants are exhorted to return to the Lord from whence they have fallen; which if they do, the promise of the Lord is that he will speak to them, or give them revelation. See the 6th, 7th, and 8th verses. The bands of her neck are the curses of God upon her, or the remnants of Israel in their scattered condition among the Gentiles.
Doctrine and Covenants 114:1     Verily thus saith the Lord: It is wisdom in my servant David W. Patten, that he settle up all his business as soon as he possibly can, and make a disposition of his merchandise, that he may perform a mission unto me next spring, in company with others, even twelve including himself, to testify of my name and bear glad tidings unto all the world.
Doctrine and Covenants 114:2     For verily thus saith the Lord, that inasmuch as there are those among you who deny my name, others shall be planted in their stead and receive their bishopric. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 115:1     Verily thus saith the Lord unto you, my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., and also my servant Sidney Rigdon, and also my servant Hyrum Smith, and your counselors who are and shall be appointed hereafter;
Doctrine and Covenants 115:2     And also unto you, my servant Edward Partridge, and his counselors;
Doctrine and Covenants 115:3     And also unto my faithful servants who are of the high council of my church in Zion, for thus it shall be called, and unto all the elders and people of my Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, scattered abroad in all the world;
Doctrine and Covenants 115:4     For thus shall my church be called in the last days, even The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Doctrine and Covenants 115:5     Verily I say unto you all: Arise and shine forth, that thy light may be a standard for the nations;
Doctrine and Covenants 115:6     And that the gathering together upon the land of Zion, and upon her stakes, may be for a defense, and for a refuge from the storm, and from wrath when it shall be poured out without mixture upon the whole earth.
Doctrine and Covenants 115:7     Let the city, Far West, be a holy and consecrated land unto me; and it shall be called most holy, for the ground upon which thou standest is holy.
Doctrine and Covenants 115:8     Therefore, I command you to build a house unto me, for the gathering together of my saints, that they may worship me.
Doctrine and Covenants 115:9     And let there be a beginning of this work, and a foundation, and a preparatory work, this following summer;
Doctrine and Covenants 115:10     And let the beginning be made on the fourth day of July next; and from that time forth let my people labor diligently to build a house unto my name;
Doctrine and Covenants 115:11     And in one year from this day let them re-commence laying the foundation of my house.
Doctrine and Covenants 115:12     Thus let them from that time forth labor diligently until it shall be finished, from the cornerstone thereof unto the top thereof, until there shall not anything remain that is not finished.
Doctrine and Covenants 115:13     Verily I say unto you, let not my servant Joseph, neither my servant Sidney, neither my servant Hyrum, get in debt any more for the building of a house unto my name;
Doctrine and Covenants 115:14     But let a house be built unto my name according to the pattern which I will show unto them.
Doctrine and Covenants 115:15     And if my people build it not according to the pattern which I shall show unto their presidency, I will not accept it at their hands.
Doctrine and Covenants 115:16     But if my people do build it according to the pattern which I shall show unto their presidency, even my servant Joseph and his counselors, then I will accept it at the hands of my people.
Doctrine and Covenants 115:17     And again, verily I say unto you, it is my will that the city of Far West should be built up speedily by the gathering of my saints;
Doctrine and Covenants 115:18     And also that other places should be appointed for stakes in the regions round about, as they shall be manifested unto my servant Joseph, from time to time.
Doctrine and Covenants 115:19     For behold, I will be with him, and I will sanctify him before the people; for unto him have I given the keys of this kingdom and ministry. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 116:1     Spring Hill is named by the Lord Adam-ondi-Ahman, because, said he, it is the place where Adam shall come to visit his people, or the Ancient of Days shall sit, as spoken of by Daniel the prophet.
Doctrine and Covenants 117:1     Verily thus saith the Lord unto my servant William Marks, and also unto my servant Newel K. Whitney, let them settle up their business speedily and journey from the land of Kirtland, before I, the Lord, send again the snows upon the earth.
Doctrine and Covenants 117:2     Let them awake, and arise, and come forth, and not tarry, for I, the Lord, command it.
Doctrine and Covenants 117:3     Therefore, if they tarry it shall not be well with them.
Doctrine and Covenants 117:4     Let them repent of all their sins, and of all their covetous desires, before me, saith the Lord; for what is property unto me? saith the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 117:5     Let the properties of Kirtland be turned out for debts, saith the Lord. Let them go, saith the Lord, and whatsoever remaineth, let it remain in your hands, saith the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 117:6     For have I not the fowls of heaven, and also the fish of the sea, and the beasts of the mountains? Have I not made the earth? Do I not hold the destinies of all the armies of the nations of the earth?
Doctrine and Covenants 117:7     Therefore, will I not make solitary places to bud and to blossom, and to bring forth in abundance? saith the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 117:8     Is there not room enough on the mountains of Adam-ondi-Ahman, and on the plains of Olaha Shinehah, or the land where Adam dwelt, that you should covet that which is but the drop, and neglect the more weighty matters?
Doctrine and Covenants 117:9     Therefore, come up hither unto the land of my people, even Zion.
Doctrine and Covenants 117:10     Let my servant William Marks be faithful over a few things, and he shall be a ruler over many. Let him preside in the midst of my people in the city of Far West, and let him be blessed with the blessings of my people.
Doctrine and Covenants 117:11     Let my servant Newel K. Whitney be ashamed of the Nicolaitane band and of all their secret abominations, and of all his littleness of soul before me, saith the Lord, and come up to the land of Adam-ondi-Ahman, and be a bishop unto my people, saith the Lord, not in name but in deed, saith the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 117:12     And again, I say unto you, I remember my servant Oliver Granger; behold, verily I say unto him that his name shall be had in sacred remembrance from generation to generation, forever and ever, saith the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 117:13     Therefore, let him contend earnestly for the redemption of the First Presidency of my Church, saith the Lord; and when he falls he shall rise again, for his sacrifice shall be more sacred unto me than his increase, saith the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 117:14     Therefore, let him come up hither speedily, unto the land of Zion; and in the due time he shall be made a merchant unto my name, saith the Lord, for the benefit of my people.
Doctrine and Covenants 117:15     Therefore let no man despise my servant Oliver Granger, but let the blessings of my people be on him forever and ever.
Doctrine and Covenants 117:16     And again, verily I say unto you, let all my servants in the land of Kirtland remember the Lord their God, and mine house also, to keep and preserve it holy, and to overthrow the moneychangers in mine own due time, saith the Lord. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 118:1     Verily, thus saith the Lord: Let a conference be held immediately; let the Twelve be organized; and let men be appointed to supply the place of those who are fallen.
Doctrine and Covenants 118:2     Let my servant Thomas remain for a season in the land of Zion, to publish my word.
Doctrine and Covenants 118:3     Let the residue continue to preach from that hour, and if they will do this in all lowliness of heart, in meekness and humility, and long-suffering, I, the Lord, give unto them a promise that I will provide for their families; and an effectual door shall be opened for them, from henceforth.
Doctrine and Covenants 118:4     And next spring let them depart to go over the great waters, and there promulgate my gospel, the fulness thereof, and bear record of my name.
Doctrine and Covenants 118:5     Let them take leave of my saints in the city of Far West, on the twenty-sixth day of April next, on the building-spot of my house, saith the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 118:6     Let my servant John Taylor, and also my servant John E. Page, and also my servant Wilford Woodruff, and also my servant Willard Richards, be appointed to fill the places of those who have fallen, and be officially notified of their appointment.
Doctrine and Covenants 119:1     Verily, thus saith the Lord, I require all their surplus property to be put into the hands of the bishop of my church in Zion,
Doctrine and Covenants 119:2     For the building of mine house, and for the laying of the foundation of Zion and for the priesthood, and for the debts of the Presidency of my Church.
Doctrine and Covenants 119:3     And this shall be the beginning of the tithing of my people.
Doctrine and Covenants 119:4     And after that, those who have thus been tithed shall pay one-tenth of all their interest annually; and this shall be a standing law unto them forever, for my holy priesthood, saith the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 119:5     Verily I say unto you, it shall come to pass that all those who gather unto the land of Zion shall be tithed of their surplus properties, and shall observe this law, or they shall not be found worthy to abide among you.
Doctrine and Covenants 119:6     And I say unto you, if my people observe not this law, to keep it holy, and by this law sanctify the land of Zion unto me, that my statutes and my judgments may be kept thereon, that it may be most holy, behold, verily I say unto you, it shall not be a land of Zion unto you.
Doctrine and Covenants 119:7     And this shall be an ensample unto all the stakes of Zion. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 120:1     Verily, thus saith the Lord, the time is now come, that it shall be disposed of by a council, composed of the First Presidency of my Church, and of the bishop and his council, and by my high council; and by mine own voice unto them, saith the Lord. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 121:1     O God, where art thou? And where is the pavilion that covereth thy hiding place?
Doctrine and Covenants 121:2     How long shall thy hand be stayed, and thine eye, yea thy pure eye, behold from the eternal heavens the wrongs of thy people and of thy servants, and thine ear be penetrated with their cries?
Doctrine and Covenants 121:3     Yea, O Lord, how long shall they suffer these wrongs and unlawful oppressions, before thine heart shall be softened toward them, and thy bowels be moved with compassion toward them?
Doctrine and Covenants 121:4     O Lord God Almighty, maker of heaven, earth, and seas, and of all things that in them are, and who controllest and subjectest the devil, and the dark and benighted dominion of Sheol--stretch forth thy hand; let thine eye pierce; let thy pavilion be taken up; let thy hiding place no longer be covered; let thine ear be inclined; let thine heart be softened, and thy bowels moved with compassion toward us.
Doctrine and Covenants 121:5     Let thine anger be kindled against our enemies; and, in the fury of thine heart, with thy sword avenge us of our wrongs.
Doctrine and Covenants 121:6     Remember thy suffering saints, O our God; and thy servants will rejoice in thy name forever.
Doctrine and Covenants 121:7     My son, peace be unto thy soul; thine adversity and thine afflictions shall be but a small moment;
Doctrine and Covenants 121:8     And then, if thou endure it well, God shall exalt thee on high; thou shalt triumph over all thy foes.
Doctrine and Covenants 121:9     Thy friends do stand by thee, and they shall hail thee again with warm hearts and friendly hands.
Doctrine and Covenants 121:10     Thou art not yet as Job; thy friends do not contend against thee, neither charge thee with transgression, as they did Job.
Doctrine and Covenants 121:11     And they who do charge thee with transgression, their hope shall be blasted, and their prospects shall melt away as the hoar frost melteth before the burning rays of the rising sun;
Doctrine and Covenants 121:12     And also that God hath set his hand and seal to change the times and seasons, and to blind their minds, that they may not understand his marvelous workings; that he may prove them also and take them in their own craftiness;
Doctrine and Covenants 121:13     Also because their hearts are corrupted, and the things which they are willing to bring upon others, and love to have others suffer, may come upon themselves to the very uttermost;
Doctrine and Covenants 121:14     That they may be disappointed also, and their hopes may be cut off;
Doctrine and Covenants 121:15     And not many years hence, that they and their posterity shall be swept from under heaven, saith God, that not one of them is left to stand by the wall.
Doctrine and Covenants 121:16     Cursed are all those that shall lift up the heel against mine anointed, saith the Lord, and cry they have sinned when they have not sinned before me, saith the Lord, but have done that which was meet in mine eyes, and which I commanded them.
Doctrine and Covenants 121:17     But those who cry transgression do it because they are the servants of sin, and are the children of disobedience themselves.
Doctrine and Covenants 121:18     And those who swear falsely against my servants, that they might bring them into bondage and death--
Doctrine and Covenants 121:19     Wo unto them; because they have offended my little ones they shall be severed from the ordinances of mine house.
Doctrine and Covenants 121:20     Their basket shall not be full, their houses and their barns shall perish, and they themselves shall be despised by those that flattered them.
Doctrine and Covenants 121:21     They shall not have right to the priesthood, nor their posterity after them from generation to generation.
Doctrine and Covenants 121:22     It had been better for them that a millstone had been hanged about their necks, and they drowned in the depth of the sea.
Doctrine and Covenants 121:23     Wo unto all those that discomfort my people, and drive, and murder, and testify against them, saith the Lord of Hosts; a generation of vipers shall not escape the damnation of hell.
Doctrine and Covenants 121:24     Behold, mine eyes see and know all their works, and I have in reserve a swift judgment in the season thereof, for them all;
Doctrine and Covenants 121:25     For there is a time appointed for every man, according as his works shall be.
Doctrine and Covenants 121:26     God shall give unto you knowledge by his Holy Spirit, yea, by the unspeakable gift of the Holy Ghost, that has not been revealed since the world was until now;
Doctrine and Covenants 121:27     Which our forefathers have awaited with anxious expectation to be revealed in the last times, which their minds were pointed to by the angels, as held in reserve for the fulness of their glory;
Doctrine and Covenants 121:28     A time to come in the which nothing shall be withheld, whether there be one God or many gods, they shall be manifest.
Doctrine and Covenants 121:29     All thrones and dominions, principalities and powers, shall be revealed and set forth upon all who have endured valiantly for the gospel of Jesus Christ.
Doctrine and Covenants 121:30     And also, if there be bounds set to the heavens or to the seas, or to the dry land, or to the sun, moon, or stars--
Doctrine and Covenants 121:31     All the times of their revolutions, all the appointed days, months, and years, and all the days of their days, months, and years, and all their glories, laws, and set times, shall be revealed in the days of the dispensation of the fulness of times--
Doctrine and Covenants 121:32     According to that which was ordained in the midst of the Council of the Eternal God of all other gods before this world was, that should be reserved unto the finishing and the end thereof, when every man shall enter into his eternal presence and into his immortal rest.
Doctrine and Covenants 121:33     How long can rolling waters remain impure? What power shall stay the heavens? As well might man stretch forth his puny arm to stop the Missouri river in its decreed course, or to turn it up stream, as to hinder the Almighty from pouring down knowledge from heaven upon the heads of the Latter-day Saints.
Doctrine and Covenants 121:34     Behold, there are many called, but few are chosen. And why are they not chosen?
Doctrine and Covenants 121:35     Because their hearts are set so much upon the things of this world, and aspire to the honors of men, that they do not learn this one lesson--
Doctrine and Covenants 121:36     That the rights of the priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven, and that the powers of heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only upon the principles of righteousness.
Doctrine and Covenants 121:37     That they may be conferred upon us, it is true; but when we undertake to cover our sins, or to gratify our pride, our vain ambition, or to exercise control or dominion or compulsion upon the souls of the children of men, in any degree of unrighteousness, behold, the heavens withdraw themselves; the Spirit of the Lord is grieved; and when it is withdrawn, Amen to the priesthood or the authority of that man.
Doctrine and Covenants 121:38     Behold, ere he is aware, he is left unto himself, to kick against the pricks, to persecute the saints, and to fight against God.
Doctrine and Covenants 121:39     We have learned by sad experience that it is the nature and disposition of almost all men, as soon as they get a little authority, as they suppose, they will immediately begin to exercise unrighteous dominion.
Doctrine and Covenants 121:40     Hence many are called, but few are chosen.
Doctrine and Covenants 121:41     No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned;
Doctrine and Covenants 121:42     By kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile--
Doctrine and Covenants 121:43     Reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy;
Doctrine and Covenants 121:44     That he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death.
Doctrine and Covenants 121:45     Let thy bowels also be full of charity towards all men, and to the household of faith, and let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly; then shall thy confidence wax strong in the presence of God; and the doctrine of the priesthood shall distil upon thy soul as the dews from heaven.
Doctrine and Covenants 121:46     The Holy Ghost shall be thy constant companion, and thy scepter an unchanging scepter of righteousness and truth; and thy dominion shall be an everlasting dominion, and without compulsory means it shall flow unto thee forever and ever.
Doctrine and Covenants 122:1     The ends of the earth shall inquire after thy name, and fools shall have thee in derision, and hell shall rage against thee;
Doctrine and Covenants 122:2     While the pure in heart, and the wise, and the noble, and the virtuous, shall seek counsel, and authority, and blessings constantly from under thy hand.
Doctrine and Covenants 122:3     And thy people shall never be turned against thee by the testimony of traitors.
Doctrine and Covenants 122:4     And although their influence shall cast thee into trouble, and into bars and walls, thou shalt be had in honor; and but for a small moment and thy voice shall be more terrible in the midst of thine enemies than the fierce lion, because of thy righteousness; and thy God shall stand by thee forever and ever.
Doctrine and Covenants 122:5     If thou art called to pass through tribulation; if thou art in perils among false brethren; if thou art in perils among robbers; if thou art in perils by land or by sea;
Doctrine and Covenants 122:6     If thou art accused with all manner of false accusations; if thine enemies fall upon thee; if they tear thee from the society of thy father and mother and brethren and sisters; and if with a drawn sword thine enemies tear thee from the bosom of thy wife, and of thine offspring, and thine elder son, although but six years of age, shall cling to thy garments, and shall say, My father, my father, why can't you stay with us? O, my father, what are the men going to do with you? and if then he shall be thrust from thee by the sword, and thou be dragged to prison, and thine enemies prowl around thee like wolves for the blood of the lamb;
Doctrine and Covenants 122:7     And if thou shouldst be cast into the pit, or into the hands of murderers, and the sentence of death passed upon thee; if thou be cast into the deep; if the billowing surge conspire against thee; if fierce winds become thine enemy; if the heavens gather blackness, and all the elements combine to hedge up the way; and above all, if the very jaws of hell shall gape open the mouth wide after thee, know thou, my son, that all these things shall give thee experience, and shall be for thy good.
Doctrine and Covenants 122:8     The Son of Man hath descended below them all. Art thou greater than he?
Doctrine and Covenants 122:9     Therefore, hold on thy way, and the priesthood shall remain with thee; for their bounds are set, they cannot pass. Thy days are known, and thy years shall not be numbered less; therefore, fear not what man can do, for God shall be with you forever and ever.
Doctrine and Covenants 123:1     And again, we would suggest for your consideration the propriety of all the saints gathering up a knowledge of all the facts, and sufferings and abuses put upon them by the people of this State;
Doctrine and Covenants 123:2     And also of all the property and amount of damages which they have sustained, both of character and personal injuries, as well as real property;
Doctrine and Covenants 123:3     And also the names of all persons that have had a hand in their oppressions, as far as they can get hold of them and find them out.
Doctrine and Covenants 123:4     And perhaps a committee can be appointed to find out these things, and to take statements and affidavits; and also to gather up the libelous publications that are afloat;
Doctrine and Covenants 123:5     And all that are in the magazines, and in the encyclopedias, and all the libelous histories that are published, and are writing, and by whom, and present the whole concatenation of diabolical rascality and nefarious and murderous impositions that have been practiced upon this people--
Doctrine and Covenants 123:6     That we may not only publish to all the world, but present them to the heads of government in all their dark and hellish hue, as the last effort which is enjoined on us by our Heavenly Father, before we can fully and completely claim that promise which shall call him forth from his hiding place; and also that the whole nation may be left without excuse before he can send forth the power of his mighty arm.
Doctrine and Covenants 123:7     It is an imperative duty that we owe to God, to angels, with whom we shall be brought to stand, and also to ourselves, to our wives and children, who have been made to bow down with grief, sorrow, and care, under the most damning hand of murder, tyranny, and oppression, supported and urged on and upheld by the influence of that spirit which hath so strongly riveted the creeds of the fathers, who have inherited lies, upon the hearts of the children, and filled the world with confusion, and has been growing stronger and stronger, and is now the very mainspring of all corruption, and the whole earth groans under the weight of its iniquity.
Doctrine and Covenants 123:8     It is an iron yoke, it is a strong band; they are the very handcuffs, and chains, and shackles, and fetters of hell.
Doctrine and Covenants 123:9     Therefore it is an imperative duty that we owe, not only to our own wives and children, but to the widows and fatherless, whose husbands and fathers have been murdered under its iron hand;
Doctrine and Covenants 123:10     Which dark and blackening deeds are enough to make hell itself shudder, and to stand aghast and pale, and the hands of the very devil to tremble and palsy.
Doctrine and Covenants 123:11     And also it is an imperative duty that we owe to all the rising generation, and to all the pure in heart--
Doctrine and Covenants 123:12     For there are many yet on the earth among all sects, parties, and denominations, who are blinded by the subtle craftiness of men, whereby they lie in wait to deceive, and who are only kept from the truth because they know not where to find it--
Doctrine and Covenants 123:13     Therefore, that we should waste and wear out our lives in bringing to light all the hidden things of darkness, wherein we know them; and they are truly manifest from heaven--
Doctrine and Covenants 123:14     These should then be attended to with great earnestness.
Doctrine and Covenants 123:15     Let no man count them as small things; for there is much which lieth in futurity, pertaining to the saints, which depends upon these things.
Doctrine and Covenants 123:16     You know, brethren, that a very large ship is benefited very much by a very small helm in the time of a storm, by being kept workways with the wind and the waves.
Doctrine and Covenants 123:17     Therefore, dearly beloved brethren, let us cheerfully do all things that lie in our power; and then may we stand still, with the utmost assurance, to see the salvation of God, and for his arm to be revealed.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:1     Verily, thus saith the Lord unto you, my servant Joseph Smith, I am well pleased with your offering and acknowledgments, which you have made; for unto this end have I raised you up, that I might show forth my wisdom through the weak things of the earth.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:2     Your prayers are acceptable before me; and in answer to them I say unto you, that you are now called immediately to make a solemn proclamation of my gospel, and of this stake which I have planted to be a cornerstone of Zion, which shall be polished with the refinement which is after the similitude of a palace.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:3     This proclamation shall be made to all the kings of the world, to the four corners thereof, to the honorable president-elect, and the high-minded governors of the nation in which you live, and to all the nations of the earth scattered abroad.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:4     Let it be written in the spirit of meekness and by the power of the Holy Ghost, which shall be in you at the time of the writing of the same;
Doctrine and Covenants 124:5     For it shall be given you by the Holy Ghost to know my will concerning those kings and authorities, even what shall befall them in a time to come.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:6     For, behold, I am about to call upon them to give heed to the light and glory of Zion, for the set time has come to favor her.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:7     Call ye, therefore, upon them with loud proclamation, and with your testimony, fearing them not, for they are as grass, and all their glory as the flower thereof which soon falleth, that they may be left also without excuse--
Doctrine and Covenants 124:8     And that I may visit them in the day of visitation, when I shall unveil the face of my covering, to appoint the portion of the oppressor among hypocrites, where there is gnashing of teeth, if they reject my servants and my testimony which I have revealed unto them.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:9     And again, I will visit and soften their hearts, many of them for your good, that ye may find grace in their eyes, that they may come to the light of truth, and the Gentiles to the exaltation or lifting up of Zion.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:10     For the day of my visitation cometh speedily, in an hour when ye think not of; and where shall be the safety of my people, and refuge for those who shall be left of them?
Doctrine and Covenants 124:11     Awake, O kings of the earth! Come ye, O, come ye, with your gold and your silver, to the help of my people, to the house of the daughters of Zion.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:12     And again, verily I say unto you, let my servant Robert B. Thompson help you to write this proclamation, for I am well pleased with him, and that he should be with you;
Doctrine and Covenants 124:13     Let him, therefore, hearken to your counsel, and I will bless him with a multiplicity of blessings; let him be faithful and true in all things from henceforth, and he shall be great in mine eyes;
Doctrine and Covenants 124:14     But let him remember that his stewardship will I require at his hands.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:15     And again, verily I say unto you, blessed is my servant Hyrum Smith; for I, the Lord, love him because of the integrity of his heart, and because he loveth that which is right before me, saith the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:16     Again, let my servant John C. Bennett help you in your labor in sending my word to the kings and people of the earth, and stand by you, even you my servant Joseph Smith, in the hour of affliction; and his reward shall not fail if he receive counsel.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:17     And for his love he shall be great, for he shall be mine if he do this, saith the Lord. I have seen the work which he hath done, which I accept if he continue, and will crown him with blessings and great glory.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:18     And again, I say unto you that it is my will that my servant Lyman Wight should continue in preaching for Zion, in the spirit of meekness, confessing me before the world; and I will bear him up as on eagles' wings; and he shall beget glory and honor to himself and unto my name.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:19     That when he shall finish his work I may receive him unto myself, even as I did my servant David Patten, who is with me at this time, and also my servant Edward Partridge, and also my aged servant Joseph Smith, Sen., who sitteth with Abraham at his right hand, and blessed and holy is he, for he is mine.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:20     And again, verily I say unto you, my servant George Miller is without guile; he may be trusted because of the integrity of his heart; and for the love which he has to my testimony I, the Lord, love him.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:21     I therefore say unto you, I seal upon his head the office of a bishopric, like unto my servant Edward Partridge, that he may receive the consecrations of mine house, that he may administer blessings upon the heads of the poor of my people, saith the Lord. Let no man despise my servant George, for he shall honor me.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:22     Let my servant George, and my servant Lyman, and my servant John Snider, and others, build a house unto my name, such a one as my servant Joseph shall show unto them, upon the place which he shall show unto them also.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:23     And it shall be for a house for boarding, a house that strangers may come from afar to lodge therein; therefore let it be a good house, worthy of all acceptation, that the weary traveler may find health and safety while he shall contemplate the word of the Lord; and the cornerstone I have appointed for Zion.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:24     This house shall be a healthful habitation if it be built unto my name, and if the governor which shall be appointed unto it shall not suffer any pollution to come upon it. It shall be holy, or the Lord your God will not dwell therein.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:25     And again, verily I say unto you, let all my saints come from afar.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:26     And send ye swift messengers, yea, chosen messengers, and say unto them: Come ye, with all your gold, and your silver, and your precious stones, and with all your antiquities; and with all who have knowledge of antiquities, that will come, may come, and bring the box tree, and the fir tree, and the pine tree, together with all the precious trees of the earth;
Doctrine and Covenants 124:27     And with iron, with copper, and with brass, and with zinc, and with all your precious things of the earth; and build a house to my name, for the Most High to dwell therein.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:28     For there is not a place found on earth that he may come to and restore again that which was lost unto you, or which he hath taken away, even the fulness of the priesthood.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:29     For a baptismal font there is not upon the earth, that they, my saints, may be baptized for those who are dead--
Doctrine and Covenants 124:30     For this ordinance belongeth to my house, and cannot be acceptable to me, only in the days of your poverty, wherein ye are not able to build a house unto me.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:31     But I command you, all ye my saints, to build a house unto me; and I grant unto you a sufficient time to build a house unto me; and during this time your baptisms shall be acceptable unto me.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:32     But behold, at the end of this appointment your baptisms for your dead shall not be acceptable unto me; and if you do not these things at the end of the appointment ye shall be rejected as a church, with your dead, saith the Lord your God.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:33     For verily I say unto you, that after you have had sufficient time to build a house to me, wherein the ordinance of baptizing for the dead belongeth, and for which the same was instituted from before the foundation of the world, your baptisms for your dead cannot be acceptable unto me;
Doctrine and Covenants 124:34     For therein are the keys of the holy priesthood ordained, that you may receive honor and glory.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:35     And after this time, your baptisms for the dead, by those who are scattered abroad, are not acceptable unto me, saith the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:36     For it is ordained that in Zion, and in her stakes, and in Jerusalem, those places which I have appointed for refuge, shall be the places for your baptisms for your dead.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:37     And again, verily I say unto you, how shall your washings be acceptable unto me, except ye perform them in a house which you have built to my name?
Doctrine and Covenants 124:38     For, for this cause I commanded Moses that he should build a tabernacle, that they should bear it with them in the wilderness, and to build a house in the land of promise, that those ordinances might be revealed which had been hid from before the world was.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:39     Therefore, verily I say unto you, that your anointings, and your washings, and your baptisms for the dead, and your solemn assemblies, and your memorials for your sacrifices by the sons of Levi, and for your oracles in your most holy places wherein you receive conversations, and your statutes and judgments, for the beginning of the revelations and foundation of Zion, and for the glory, honor, and endowment of all her municipals, are ordained by the ordinance of my holy house, which my people are always commanded to build unto my holy name.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:40     And verily I say unto you, let this house be built unto my name, that I may reveal mine ordinances therein unto my people;
Doctrine and Covenants 124:41     For I deign to reveal unto my church things which have been kept hid from before the foundation of the world, things that pertain to the dispensation of the fulness of times.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:42     And I will show unto my servant Joseph all things pertaining to this house, and the priesthood thereof, and the place whereon it shall be built.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:43     And ye shall build it on the place where you have contemplated building it, for that is the spot which I have chosen for you to build it.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:44     If ye labor with all your might, I will consecrate that spot that it shall be made holy.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:45     And if my people will hearken unto my voice, and unto the voice of my servants whom I have appointed to lead my people, behold, verily I say unto you, they shall not be moved out of their place.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:46     But if they will not hearken to my voice, nor unto the voice of these men whom I have appointed, they shall not be blest, because they pollute mine holy grounds, and mine holy ordinances, and charters, and my holy words which I give unto them.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:47     And it shall come to pass that if you build a house unto my name, and do not do the things that I say, I will not perform the oath which I make unto you, neither fulfil the promises which ye expect at my hands, saith the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:48     For instead of blessings, ye, by your own works, bring cursings, wrath, indignation, and judgments upon your own heads, by your follies, and by all your abominations, which you practice before me, saith the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:49     Verily, verily, I say unto you, that when I give a commandment to any of the sons of men to do a work unto my name, and those sons of men go with all their might and with all they have to perform that work, and cease not their diligence, and their enemies come upon them and hinder them from performing that work, behold, it behooveth me to require that work no more at the hands of those sons of men, but to accept of their offerings.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:50     And the iniquity and transgression of my holy laws and commandments I will visit upon the heads of those who hindered my work, unto the third and fourth generation, so long as they repent not, and hate me, saith the Lord God.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:51     Therefore, for this cause have I accepted the offerings of those whom I commanded to build up a city and a house unto my name, in Jackson county, Missouri, and were hindered by their enemies, saith the Lord your God.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:52     And I will answer judgment, wrath, and indignation, wailing, and anguish, and gnashing of teeth upon their heads, unto the third and fourth generation, so long as they repent not, and hate me, saith the Lord your God.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:53     And this I make an example unto you, for your consolation concerning all those who have been commanded to do a work and have been hindered by the hands of their enemies, and by oppression, saith the Lord your God.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:54     For I am the Lord your God, and will save all those of your brethren who have been pure in heart, and have been slain in the land of Missouri, saith the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:55     And again, verily I say unto you, I command you again to build a house to my name, even in this place, that you may prove yourselves unto me that ye are faithful in all things whatsoever I command you, that I may bless you, and crown you with honor, immortality, and eternal life.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:56     And now I say unto you, as pertaining to my boarding house which I have commanded you to build for the boarding of strangers, let it be built unto my name, and let my name be named upon it, and let my servant Joseph and his house have place therein, from generation to generation.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:57     For this anointing have I put upon his head, that his blessing shall also be put upon the head of his posterity after him.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:58     And as I said unto Abraham concerning the kindreds of the earth, even so I say unto my servant Joseph: In thee and in thy seed shall the kindred of the earth be blessed.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:59     Therefore, let my servant Joseph and his seed after him have place in that house, from generation to generation, forever and ever, saith the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:60     And let the name of that house be called Nauvoo House; and let it be a delightful habitation for man, and a resting-place for the weary traveler, that he may contemplate the glory of Zion, and the glory of this, the cornerstone thereof;
Doctrine and Covenants 124:61     That he may receive also the counsel from those whom I have set to be as plants of renown, and as watchmen upon her walls.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:62     Behold, verily I say unto you, let my servant George Miller, and my servant Lyman Wight, and my servant John Snider, and my servant Peter Haws, organize themselves, and appoint one of them to be a president over their quorum for the purpose of building that house.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:63     And they shall form a constitution, whereby they may receive stock for the building of that house.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:64     And they shall not receive less than fifty dollars for a share of stock in that house, and they shall be permitted to receive fifteen thousand dollars from any one man for stock in that house.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:65     But they shall not be permitted to receive over fifteen thousand dollars stock from any one man.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:66     And they shall not be permitted to receive under fifty dollars for a share of stock from any one man in that house.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:67     And they shall not be permitted to receive any man, as a stockholder in this house, except the same shall pay his stock into their hands at the time he receives stock;
Doctrine and Covenants 124:68     And in proportion to the amount of stock he pays into their hands he shall receive stock in that house; but if he pays nothing into their hands he shall not receive any stock in that house.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:69     And if any pay stock into their hands it shall be for stock in that house, for himself, and for his generation after him, from generation to generation, so long as he and his heirs shall hold that stock, and do not sell or convey the stock away out of their hands by their own free will and act, if you will do my will, saith the Lord your God.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:70     And again, verily I say unto you, if my servant George Miller, and my servant Lyman Wight, and my servant John Snider, and my servant Peter Haws, receive any stock into their hands, in moneys, or in properties wherein they receive the real value of moneys, they shall not appropriate any portion of that stock to any other purpose, only in that house.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:71     And if they do appropriate any portion of that stock anywhere else, only in that house, without the consent of the stockholder, and do not repay four-fold for the stock which they appropriate anywhere else, only in that house, they shall be accursed, and shall be moved out of their place, saith the Lord God; for I, the Lord, am God, and cannot be mocked in any of these things.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:72     Verily I say unto you, let my servant Joseph pay stock into their hands for the building of that house, as seemeth him good; but my servant Joseph cannot pay over fifteen thousand dollars stock in that house, nor under fifty dollars; neither can any other man, saith the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:73     And there are others also who wish to know my will concerning them, for they have asked it at my hands.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:74     Therefore, I say unto you concerning my servant Vinson Knight, if he will do my will let him put stock into that house for himself, and for his generation after him, from generation to generation.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:75     And let him lift up his voice long and loud, in the midst of the people, to plead the cause of the poor and the needy; and let him not fail, neither let his heart faint; and I will accept of his offerings, for they shall not be unto me as the offerings of Cain, for he shall be mine, saith the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:76     Let his family rejoice and turn away their hearts from affliction; for I have chosen him and anointed him, and he shall be honored in the midst of his house, for I will forgive all his sins, saith the Lord. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:77     Verily I say unto you, let my servant Hyrum put stock into that house as seemeth him good, for himself and his generation after him, from generation to generation.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:78     Let my servant Isaac Galland put stock into that house; for I, the Lord, love him for the work he hath done, and will forgive all his sins; therefore, let him be remembered for an interest in that house from generation to generation.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:79     Let my servant Isaac Galland be appointed among you, and be ordained by my servant William Marks, and be blessed of him, to go with my servant Hyrum to accomplish the work that my servant Joseph shall point out to them, and they shall be greatly blessed.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:80     Let my servant William Marks pay stock into that house, as seemeth him good, for himself and his generation, from generation to generation.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:81     Let my servant Henry G. Sherwood pay stock into that house, as seemeth him good, for himself and his seed after him, from generation to generation.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:82     Let my servant William Law pay stock into that house, for himself and his seed after him, from generation to generation.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:83     If he will do my will let him not take his family unto the eastern lands, even unto Kirtland; nevertheless, I, the Lord, will build up Kirtland, but I, the Lord, have a scourge prepared for the inhabitants thereof.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:84     And with my servant Almon Babbitt, there are many things with which I am not pleased; behold, he aspireth to establish his counsel instead of the counsel which I have ordained, even that of the Presidency of my Church; and he setteth up a golden calf for the worship of my people.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:85     Let no man go from this place who has come here essaying to keep my commandments.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:86     If they live here let them live unto me; and if they die let them die unto me; for they shall rest from all their labors here, and shall continue their works.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:87     Therefore, let my servant William put his trust in me, and cease to fear concerning his family, because of the sickness of the land. If ye love me, keep my commandments; and the sickness of the land shall redound to your glory.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:88     Let my servant William go and proclaim my everlasting gospel with a loud voice, and with great joy, as he shall be moved upon by my Spirit, unto the inhabitants of Warsaw, and also unto the inhabitants of Carthage, and also unto the inhabitants of Burlington, and also unto the inhabitants of Madison, and await patiently and diligently for further instructions at my general conference, saith the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:89     If he will do my will let him from henceforth hearken to the counsel of my servant Joseph, and with his interest support the cause of the poor, and publish the new translation of my holy word unto the inhabitants of the earth.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:90     And if he will do this I will bless him with a multiplicity of blessings, that he shall not be forsaken, nor his seed be found begging bread.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:91     And again, verily I say unto you, let my servant William be appointed, ordained, and anointed, as counselor unto my servant Joseph, in the room of my servant Hyrum, that my servant Hyrum may take the office of Priesthood and Patriarch, which was appointed unto him by his father, by blessing and also by right;
Doctrine and Covenants 124:92     That from henceforth he shall hold the keys of the patriarchal blessings upon the heads of all my people,
Doctrine and Covenants 124:93     That whoever he blesses shall be blessed, and whoever he curses shall be cursed; that whatsoever he shall bind on earth shall be bound in heaven; and whatsoever he shall loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:94     And from this time forth I appoint unto him that he may be a prophet, and a seer, and a revelator unto my church, as well as my servant Joseph;
Doctrine and Covenants 124:95     That he may act in concert also with my servant Joseph; and that he shall receive counsel from my servant Joseph, who shall show unto him the keys whereby he may ask and receive, and be crowned with the same blessing, and glory, and honor, and priesthood, and gifts of the priesthood, that once were put upon him that was my servant Oliver Cowdery;
Doctrine and Covenants 124:96     That my servant Hyrum may bear record of the things which I shall show unto him, that his name may be had in honorable remembrance from generation to generation, forever and ever.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:97     Let my servant William Law also receive the keys by which he may ask and receive blessings; let him be humble before me, and be without guile, and he shall receive of my Spirit, even the Comforter, which shall manifest unto him the truth of all things, and shall give him, in the very hour, what he shall say.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:98     And these signs shall follow him--he shall heal the sick, he shall cast out devils, and shall be delivered from those who would administer unto him deadly poison;
Doctrine and Covenants 124:99     And he shall be led in paths where the poisonous serpent cannot lay hold upon his heel, and he shall mount up in the imagination of his thoughts as upon eagles' wings.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:100     And what if I will that he should raise the dead, let him not withhold his voice.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:101     Therefore, let my servant William cry aloud and spare not, with joy and rejoicing, and with hosannas to him that sitteth upon the throne forever and ever, saith the Lord your God.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:102     Behold, I say unto you, I have a mission in store for my servant William, and my servant Hyrum, and for them alone; and let my servant Joseph tarry at home, for he is needed. The remainder I will show unto you hereafter. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:103     And again, verily I say unto you, if my servant Sidney will serve me and be counselor unto my servant Joseph, let him arise and come up and stand in the office of his calling, and humble himself before me.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:104     And if he will offer unto me an acceptable offering, and acknowledgments, and remain with my people, behold, I, the Lord your God, will heal him that he shall be healed; and he shall lift up his voice again on the mountains, and be a spokesman before my face.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:105     Let him come and locate his family in the neighborhood in which my servant Joseph resides.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:106     And in all his journeyings let him lift up his voice as with the sound of a trump, and warn the inhabitants of the earth to flee the wrath to come.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:107     Let him assist my servant Joseph, and also let my servant William Law assist my servant Joseph, in making a solemn proclamation unto the kings of the earth, even as I have before said unto you.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:108     If my servant Sidney will do my will, let him not remove his family unto the eastern lands, but let him change their habitation, even as I have said.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:109     Behold, it is not my will that he shall seek to find safety and refuge out of the city which I have appointed unto you, even the city of Nauvoo.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:110     Verily I say unto you, even now, if he will hearken unto my voice, it shall be well with him. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:111     And again, verily I say unto you, let my servant Amos Davies pay stock into the hands of those whom I have appointed to build a house for boarding, even the Nauvoo House.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:112     This let him do if he will have an interest; and let him hearken unto the counsel of my servant Joseph, and labor with his own hands that he may obtain the confidence of men.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:113     And when he shall prove himself faithful in all things that shall be entrusted unto his care, yea, even a few things, he shall be made ruler over many;
Doctrine and Covenants 124:114     Let him therefore abase himself that he may be exalted. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:115     And again, verily I say unto you, if my servant Robert D. Foster will obey my voice, let him build a house for my servant Joseph, according to the contract which he has made with him, as the door shall be open to him from time to time.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:116     And let him repent of all his folly, and clothe himself with charity; and cease to do evil, and lay aside all his hard speeches;
Doctrine and Covenants 124:117     And pay stock also into the hands of the quorum of the Nauvoo House, for himself and for his generation after him, from generation to generation;
Doctrine and Covenants 124:118     And hearken unto the counsel of my servants Joseph, and Hyrum, and William Law, and unto the authorities which I have called to lay the foundation of Zion; and it shall be well with him forever and ever. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:119     And again, verily I say unto you, let no man pay stock to the quorum of the Nauvoo House unless he shall be a believer in the Book of Mormon, and the revelations I have given unto you, saith the Lord your God;
Doctrine and Covenants 124:120     For that which is more or less than this cometh of evil, and shall be attended with cursings and not blessings, saith the Lord your God. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:121     And again, verily I say unto you, let the quorum of the Nauvoo House have a just recompense of wages for all their labors which they do in building the Nauvoo House; and let their wages be as shall be agreed among themselves, as pertaining to the price thereof.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:122     And let every man who pays stock bear his proportion of their wages, if it must needs be, for their support, saith the Lord; otherwise, their labors shall be accounted unto them for stock in that house. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:123     Verily I say unto you, I now give unto you the officers belonging to my Priesthood, that ye may hold the keys thereof, even the Priesthood which is after the order of Melchizedek, which is after the order of mine Only Begotten Son.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:124     First, I give unto you Hyrum Smith to be a patriarch unto you, to hold the sealing blessings of my church, even the Holy Spirit of promise, whereby ye are sealed up unto the day of redemption, that ye may not fall notwithstanding the hour of temptation that may come upon you.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:125     I give unto you my servant Joseph to be a presiding elder over all my church, to be a translator, a revelator, a seer, and prophet.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:126     I give unto him for counselors my servant Sidney Rigdon and my servant William Law, that these may constitute a quorum and First Presidency, to receive the oracles for the whole church.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:127     I give unto you my servant Brigham Young to be a president over the Twelve traveling council;
Doctrine and Covenants 124:128     Which Twelve hold the keys to open up the authority of my kingdom upon the four corners of the earth, and after that to send my word to every creature.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:129     They are Heber C. Kimball, Parley P. Pratt, Orson Pratt, Orson Hyde, William Smith, John Taylor, John E. Page, Wilford Woodruff, Willard Richards, George A. Smith;
Doctrine and Covenants 124:130     David Patten I have taken unto myself; behold, his priesthood no man taketh from him; but, verily I say unto you, another may be appointed unto the same calling.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:131     And again, I say unto you, I give unto you a high council, for the cornerstone of Zion--
Doctrine and Covenants 124:132     Namely, Samuel Bent, Henry G. Sherwood, George W. Harris, Charles C. Rich, Thomas Grover, Newel Knight, David Dort, Dunbar Wilson--Seymour Brunson I have taken unto myself; no man taketh his priesthood, but another may be appointed unto the same priesthood in his stead; and verily I say unto you, let my servant Aaron Johnson be ordained unto this calling in his stead--David Fullmer, Alpheus Cutler, William Huntington.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:133     And again, I give unto you Don C. Smith to be a president over a quorum of high priests;
Doctrine and Covenants 124:134     Which ordinance is instituted for the purpose of qualifying those who shall be appointed standing presidents or servants over different stakes scattered abroad;
Doctrine and Covenants 124:135     And they may travel also if they choose, but rather be ordained for standing presidents; this is the office of their calling, saith the Lord your God.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:136     I give unto him Amasa Lyman and Noah Packard for counselors, that they may preside over the quorum of high priests of my church, saith the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:137     And again, I say unto you, I give unto you John A. Hicks, Samuel Williams, and Jesse Baker, which priesthood is to preside over the quorum of elders, which quorum is instituted for standing ministers; nevertheless they may travel, yet they are ordained to be standing ministers to my church, saith the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:138     And again, I give unto you Joseph Young, Josiah Butterfield, Daniel Miles, Henry Herriman, Zera Pulsipher, Levi Hancock, James Foster, to preside over the quorum of seventies;
Doctrine and Covenants 124:139     Which quorum is instituted for traveling elders to bear record of my name in all the world, wherever the traveling high council, mine apostles, shall send them to prepare a way before my face.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:140     The difference between this quorum and the quorum of elders is that one is to travel continually, and the other is to preside over the churches from time to time; the one has the responsibility of presiding from time to time, and the other has no responsibility of presiding, saith the Lord your God.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:141     And again, I say unto you, I give unto you Vinson Knight, Samuel H. Smith, and Shadrach Roundy, if he will receive it, to preside over the bishopric; a knowledge of said bishopric is given unto you in the book of Doctrine and Covenants.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:142     And again, I say unto you, Samuel Rolfe and his counselors for priests, and the president of the teachers and his counselors, and also the president of the deacons and his counselors, and also the president of the stake and his counselors.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:143     The above offices I have given unto you, and the keys thereof, for helps and for governments, for the work of the ministry and the perfecting of my saints.
Doctrine and Covenants 124:144     And a commandment I give unto you, that you should fill all these offices and approve of those names which I have mentioned, or else disapprove of them at my general conference;
Doctrine and Covenants 124:145     And that ye should prepare rooms for all these offices in my house when you build it unto my name, saith the Lord your God. Even so. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 125:1     What is the will of the Lord concerning the saints in the Territory of Iowa?
Doctrine and Covenants 125:2     Verily, thus saith the Lord, I say unto you, if those who call themselves by my name and are essaying to be my saints, if they will do my will and keep my commandments concerning them, let them gather themselves together unto the places which I shall appoint unto them by my servant Joseph, and build up cities unto my name, that they may be prepared for that which is in store for a time to come.
Doctrine and Covenants 125:3     Let them build up a city unto my name upon the land opposite the city of Nauvoo, and let the name of Zarahemla be named upon it.
Doctrine and Covenants 125:4     And let all those who come from the east, and the west, and the north, and the south, that have desires to dwell therein, take up their inheritance in the same, as well as in the city of Nashville, or in the city of Nauvoo, and in all the stakes which I have appointed, saith the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 126:1     Dear and well-beloved brother, Brigham Young, verily thus saith the Lord unto you: My servant Brigham, it is no more required at your hand to leave your family as in times past, for your offering is acceptable to me.
Doctrine and Covenants 126:2     I have seen your labor and toil in journeyings for my name.
Doctrine and Covenants 126:3     I therefore command you to send my word abroad, and take especial care of your family from this time, henceforth and forever. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 127:1     Forasmuch as the Lord has revealed unto me that my enemies, both in Missouri and this State, were again in the pursuit of me; and inasmuch as they pursue me without a cause, and have not the least shadow or coloring of justice or right on their side in the getting up of their prosecutions against me; and inasmuch as their pretensions are all founded in falsehood of the blackest dye, I have thought it expedient and wisdom in me to leave the place for a short season, for my own safety and the safety of this people. I would say to all those with whom I have business, that I have left my affairs with agents and clerks who will transact all business in a prompt and proper manner, and will see that all my debts are canceled in due time, by turning out property, or otherwise, as the case may require, or as the circumstances may admit of. When I learn that the storm is fully blown over, then I will return to you again.
Doctrine and Covenants 127:2     And as for the perils which I am called to pass through, they seem but a small thing to me, as the envy and wrath of man have been my common lot all the days of my life; and for what cause it seems mysterious, unless I was ordained from before the foundation of the world for some good end, or bad, as you may choose to call it. Judge ye for yourselves. God knoweth all these things, whether it be good or bad. But nevertheless, deep water is what I am wont to swim in. It all has become a second nature to me; and I feel, like Paul, to glory in tribulation; for to this day has the God of my fathers delivered me out of them all, and will deliver me from henceforth; for behold, and lo, I shall triumph over all my enemies, for the Lord God hath spoken it.
Doctrine and Covenants 127:3     Let all the saints rejoice, therefore, and be exceedingly glad; for Israel's God is their God, and he will mete out a just recompense of reward upon the heads of all their oppressors.
Doctrine and Covenants 127:4     And again, verily thus saith the Lord: Let the work of my temple, and all the works which I have appointed unto you, be continued on and not cease; and let your diligence, and your perseverance, and patience, and your works be redoubled, and you shall in nowise lose your reward, saith the Lord of Hosts. And if they persecute you, so persecuted they the prophets and righteous men that were before you. For all this there is a reward in heaven.
Doctrine and Covenants 127:5     And again, I give unto you a word in relation to the baptism for your dead.
Doctrine and Covenants 127:6     Verily, thus saith the Lord unto you concerning your dead: When any of you are baptized for your dead, let there be a recorder, and let him be eye-witness of your baptisms; let him hear with his ears, that he may testify of a truth, saith the Lord;
Doctrine and Covenants 127:7     That in all your recordings it may be recorded in heaven; whatsoever you bind on earth, may be bound in heaven; whatsoever you loose on earth, may be loosed in heaven;
Doctrine and Covenants 127:8     For I am about to restore many things to the earth, pertaining to the priesthood, saith the Lord of Hosts.
Doctrine and Covenants 127:9     And again, let all the records be had in order, that they may be put in the archives of my holy temple, to be held in remembrance from generation to generation, saith the Lord of Hosts.
Doctrine and Covenants 127:10     I will say to all the saints, that I desired, with exceedingly great desire, to have addressed them from the stand on the subject of baptism for the dead, on the following Sabbath. But inasmuch as it is out of my power to do so, I will write the word of the Lord from time to time, on that subject, and send it to you by mail, as well as many other things.
Doctrine and Covenants 127:11     I now close my letter for the present, for the want of more time; for the enemy is on the alert, and as the Savior said, the prince of this world cometh, but he hath nothing in me.
Doctrine and Covenants 127:12     Behold, my prayer to God is that you all may be saved. And I subscribe myself your servant in the Lord, prophet and seer of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Doctrine and Covenants 128:1     As I stated to you in my letter before I left my place, that I would write to you from time to time and give you information in relation to many subjects, I now resume the subject of the baptism for the dead, as that subject seems to occupy my mind, and press itself upon my feelings the strongest, since I have been pursued by my enemies.
Doctrine and Covenants 128:2     I wrote a few words of revelation to you concerning a recorder. I have had a few additional views in relation to this matter, which I now certify. That is, it was declared in my former letter that there should be a recorder, who should be eye-witness, and also to hear with his ears, that he might make a record of a truth before the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 128:3     Now, in relation to this matter, it would be very difficult for one recorder to be present at all times, and to do all the business. To obviate this difficulty, there can be a recorder appointed in each ward of the city, who is well qualified for taking accurate minutes; and let him be very particular and precise in taking the whole proceedings, certifying in his record that he saw with his eyes, and heard with his ears, giving the date, and names, and so forth, and the history of the whole transaction; naming also some three individuals that are present, if there be any present, who can at any time when called upon certify to the same, that in the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established.
Doctrine and Covenants 128:4     Then, let there be a general recorder, to whom these other records can be handed, being attended with certificates over their own signatures, certifying that the record they have made is true. Then the general church recorder can enter the record on the general church book, with the certificates and all the attending witnesses, with his own statement that he verily believes the above statement and records to be true, from his knowledge of the general character and appointment of those men by the church. And when this is done on the general church book, the record shall be just as holy, and shall answer the ordinance just the same as if he had seen with his eyes and heard with his ears, and made a record of the same on the general church book.
Doctrine and Covenants 128:5     You may think this order of things to be very particular; but let me tell you that it is only to answer the will of God, by conforming to the ordinance and preparation that the Lord ordained and prepared before the foundation of the world, for the salvation of the dead who should die without a knowledge of the gospel.
Doctrine and Covenants 128:6     And further, I want you to remember that John the Revelator was contemplating this very subject in relation to the dead, when he declared, as you will find recorded in Revelation 20:12--And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God; and the books were opened; and another book was opened, which is the book of life; and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books, according to their works.
Doctrine and Covenants 128:7     You will discover in this quotation that the books were opened; and another book was opened, which was the book of life; but the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books, according to their works; consequently, the books spoken of must be the books which contained the record of their works, and refer to the records which are kept on the earth. And the book which was the book of life is the record which is kept in heaven; the principle agreeing precisely with the doctrine which is commanded you in the revelation contained in the letter which I wrote to you previous to my leaving my place--that in all your recordings it may be recorded in heaven.
Doctrine and Covenants 128:8     Now, the nature of this ordinance consists in the power of the priesthood, by the revelation of Jesus Christ, wherein it is granted that whatsoever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatsoever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. Or, in other words, taking a different view of the translation, whatsoever you record on earth shall be recorded in heaven, and whatsoever you do not record on earth shall not be recorded in heaven; for out of the books shall your dead be judged, according to their own works, whether they themselves have attended to the ordinances in their own propria persona, or by the means of their own agents, according to the ordinance which God has prepared for their salvation from before the foundation of the world, according to the records which they have kept concerning their dead.
Doctrine and Covenants 128:9     It may seem to some to be a very bold doctrine that we talk of--a power which records or binds on earth and binds in heaven. Nevertheless, in all ages of the world, whenever the Lord has given a dispensation of the priesthood to any man by actual revelation, or any set of men, this power has always been given. Hence, whatsoever those men did in authority, in the name of the Lord, and did it truly and faithfully, and kept a proper and faithful record of the same, it became a law on earth and in heaven, and could not be annulled, according to the decrees of the great Jehovah. This is a faithful saying. Who can hear it?
Doctrine and Covenants 128:10     And again, for the precedent, Matthew 16:18, 19: And I say also unto thee, That thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven: and whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven; and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven.
Doctrine and Covenants 128:11     Now the great and grand secret of the whole matter, and the summum bonum of the whole subject that is lying before us, consists in obtaining the powers of the Holy Priesthood. For him to whom these keys are given there is no difficulty in obtaining a knowledge of facts in relation to the salvation of the children of men, both as well for the dead as for the living.
Doctrine and Covenants 128:12     Herein is glory and honor, and immortality and eternal life--The ordinance of baptism by water, to be immersed therein in order to answer to the likeness of the dead, that one principle might accord with the other; to be immersed in the water and come forth out of the water is in the likeness of the resurrection of the dead in coming forth out of their graves; hence, this ordinance was instituted to form a relationship with the ordinance of baptism for the dead, being in likeness of the dead.
Doctrine and Covenants 128:13     Consequently, the baptismal font was instituted as a similitude of the grave, and was commanded to be in a place underneath where the living are wont to assemble, to show forth the living and the dead, and that all things may have their likeness, and that they may accord one with another--that which is earthly conforming to that which is heavenly, as Paul hath declared, 1 Corinthians 15:46, 47, and 48:
Doctrine and Covenants 128:14     Howbeit that was not first which is spiritual, but that which is natural; and afterward that which is spiritual. The first man is of the earth, earthy; the second man is the Lord from heaven. As is the earthy, such are they also that are earthy; and as is the heavenly, such are they also that are heavenly. And as are the records on the earth in relation to your dead, which are truly made out, so also are the records in heaven. This, therefore, is the sealing and binding power, and, in one sense of the word, the keys of the kingdom, which consist in the key of knowledge.
Doctrine and Covenants 128:15     And now, my dearly beloved brethren and sisters, let me assure you that these are principles in relation to the dead and the living that cannot be lightly passed over, as pertaining to our salvation. For their salvation is necessary and essential to our salvation, as Paul says concerning the fathers--that they without us cannot be made perfect--neither can we without our dead be made perfect.
Doctrine and Covenants 128:16     And now, in relation to the baptism for the dead, I will give you another quotation of Paul, 1 Corinthians 15:29: Else what shall they do which are baptized for the dead, if the dead rise not at all? Why are they then baptized for the dead?
Doctrine and Covenants 128:17     And again, in connection with this quotation I will give you a quotation from one of the prophets, who had his eye fixed on the restoration of the priesthood, the glories to be revealed in the last days, and in an especial manner this most glorious of all subjects belonging to the everlasting gospel, namely, the baptism for the dead; for Malachi says, last chapter, verses 5th and 6th: Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord: And he shall turn the heart of the fathers to the children, and the heart of the children to their fathers, lest I come and smite the earth with a curse.
Doctrine and Covenants 128:18     I might have rendered a plainer translation to this, but it is sufficiently plain to suit my purpose as it stands. It is sufficient to know, in this case, that the earth will be smitten with a curse unless there is a welding link of some kind or other between the fathers and the children, upon some subject or other--and behold what is that subject? It is the baptism for the dead. For we without them cannot be made perfect; neither can they without us be made perfect. Neither can they nor we be made perfect without those who have died in the gospel also; for it is necessary in the ushering in of the dispensation of the fulness of times, which dispensation is now beginning to usher in, that a whole and complete and perfect union, and welding together of dispensations, and keys, and powers, and glories should take place, and be revealed from the days of Adam even to the present time. And not only this, but those things which never have been revealed from the foundation of the world, but have been kept hid from the wise and prudent, shall be revealed unto babes and sucklings in this, the dispensation of the fulness of times.
Doctrine and Covenants 128:19     Now, what do we hear in the gospel which we have received? A voice of gladness! A voice of mercy from heaven; and a voice of truth out of the earth; glad tidings for the dead; a voice of gladness for the living and the dead; glad tidings of great joy. How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of those that bring glad tidings of good things, and that say unto Zion: Behold, thy God reigneth! As the dews of Carmel, so shall the knowledge of God descend upon them!
Doctrine and Covenants 128:20     And again, what do we hear? Glad tidings from Cumorah! Moroni, an angel from heaven, declaring the fulfilment of the prophets--the book to be revealed. A voice of the Lord in the wilderness of Fayette, Seneca county, declaring the three witnesses to bear record of the book! The voice of Michael on the banks of the Susquehanna, detecting the devil when he appeared as an angel of light! The voice of Peter, James, and John in the wilderness between Harmony, Susquehanna county, and Colesville, Broome county, on the Susquehanna river, declaring themselves as possessing the keys of the kingdom, and of the dispensation of the fulness of times!
Doctrine and Covenants 128:21     And again, the voice of God in the chamber of old Father Whitmer, in Fayette, Seneca county, and at sundry times, and in divers places through all the travels and tribulations of this Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints! And the voice of Michael, the archangel; the voice of Gabriel, and of Raphael, and of divers angels, from Michael or Adam down to the present time, all declaring their dispensation, their rights, their keys, their honors, their majesty and glory, and the power of their priesthood; giving line upon line, precept upon precept; here a little, and there a little; giving us consolation by holding forth that which is to come, confirming our hope!
Doctrine and Covenants 128:22     Brethren, shall we not go on in so great a cause? Go forward and not backward. Courage, brethren; and on, on to the victory! Let your hearts rejoice, and be exceedingly glad. Let the earth break forth into singing. Let the dead speak forth anthems of eternal praise to the King Immanuel, who hath ordained, before the world was, that which would enable us to redeem them out of their prison; for the prisoners shall go free.
Doctrine and Covenants 128:23     Let the mountains shout for joy, and all ye valleys cry aloud; and all ye seas and dry lands tell the wonders of your Eternal King! And ye rivers, and brooks, and rills, flow down with gladness. Let the woods and all the trees of the field praise the Lord; and ye solid rocks weep for joy! And let the sun, moon, and the morning stars sing together, and let all the sons of God shout for joy! And let the eternal creations declare his name forever and ever! And again I say, how glorious is the voice we hear from heaven, proclaiming in our ears, glory, and salvation, and honor, and immortality, and eternal life; kingdoms, principalities, and powers!
Doctrine and Covenants 128:24     Behold, the great day of the Lord is at hand; and who can abide the day of his coming, and who can stand when he appeareth? For he is like a refiner's fire, and like fuller's soap; and he shall sit as a refiner and purifier of silver, and he shall purify the sons of Levi, and purge them as gold and silver, that they may offer unto the Lord an offering in righteousness. Let us, therefore, as a church and a people, and as Latter-day Saints, offer unto the Lord an offering in righteousness; and let us present in his holy temple, when it is finished, a book containing the records of our dead, which shall be worthy of all acceptation.
Doctrine and Covenants 128:25     Brethren, I have many things to say to you on the subject; but shall now close for the present, and continue the subject another time. I am, as ever, your humble servant and never deviating friend,
Doctrine and Covenants 129:1     There are two kinds of beings in heaven, namely: Angels, who are resurrected personages, having bodies of flesh and bones--
Doctrine and Covenants 129:2     For instance, Jesus said: Handle me and see, for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye see me have.
Doctrine and Covenants 129:3     Secondly: the spirits of just men made perfect, they who are not resurrected, but inherit the same glory.
Doctrine and Covenants 129:4     When a messenger comes saying he has a message from God, offer him your hand and request him to shake hands with you.
Doctrine and Covenants 129:5     If he be an angel he will do so, and you will feel his hand.
Doctrine and Covenants 129:6     If he be the spirit of a just man made perfect he will come in his glory; for that is the only way he can appear--
Doctrine and Covenants 129:7     Ask him to shake hands with you, but he will not move, because it is contrary to the order of heaven for a just man to deceive; but he will still deliver his message.
Doctrine and Covenants 129:8     If it be the devil as an angel of light, when you ask him to shake hands he will offer you his hand, and you will not feel anything; you may therefore detect him.
Doctrine and Covenants 129:9     These are three grand keys whereby you may know whether any administration is from God.
Doctrine and Covenants 130:1     When the Savior shall appear we shall see him as he is. We shall see that he is a man like ourselves.
Doctrine and Covenants 130:2     And that same sociality which exists among us here will exist among us there, only it will be coupled with eternal glory, which glory we do not now enjoy.
Doctrine and Covenants 130:3     John 14:23--The appearing of the Father and the Son, in that verse, is a personal appearance; and the idea that the Father and the Son dwell in a man's heart is an old sectarian notion, and is false.
Doctrine and Covenants 130:4     In answer to the question--Is not the reckoning of God's time, angel's time, prophet's time, and man's time, according to the planet on which they reside?
Doctrine and Covenants 130:5     I answer, Yes. But there are no angels who minister to this earth but those who do belong or have belonged to it.
Doctrine and Covenants 130:6     The angels do not reside on a planet like this earth;
Doctrine and Covenants 130:7     But they reside in the presence of God, on a globe like a sea of glass and fire, where all things for their glory are manifest, past, present, and future, and are continually before the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 130:8     The place where God resides is a great Urim and Thummim.
Doctrine and Covenants 130:9     This earth, in its sanctified and immortal state, will be made like unto crystal and will be a Urim and Thummim to the inhabitants who dwell thereon, whereby all things pertaining to an inferior kingdom, or all kingdoms of a lower order, will be manifest to those who dwell on it; and this earth will be Christ's.
Doctrine and Covenants 130:10     Then the white stone mentioned in Revelation 2:17, will become a Urim and Thummim to each individual who receives one, whereby things pertaining to a higher order of kingdoms will be made known;
Doctrine and Covenants 130:11     And a white stone is given to each of those who come into the celestial kingdom, whereon is a new name written, which no man knoweth save he that receiveth it. The new name is the key word.
Doctrine and Covenants 130:12     I prophesy, in the name of the Lord God, that the commencement of the difficulties which will cause much bloodshed previous to the coming of the Son of Man will be in South Carolina.
Doctrine and Covenants 130:13     It may probably arise through the slave question. This a voice declared to me, while I was praying earnestly on the subject, December 25th, 1832.
Doctrine and Covenants 130:14     I was once praying very earnestly to know the time of the coming of the Son of Man, when I heard a voice repeat the following:
Doctrine and Covenants 130:15     Joseph, my son, if thou livest until thou art eighty-five years old, thou shalt see the face of the Son of Man; therefore let this suffice, and trouble me no more on this matter.
Doctrine and Covenants 130:16     I was left thus, without being able to decide whether this coming referred to the beginning of the millennium or to some previous appearing, or whether I should die and thus see his face.
Doctrine and Covenants 130:17     I believe the coming of the Son of Man will not be any sooner than that time.
Doctrine and Covenants 130:18     Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection.
Doctrine and Covenants 130:19     And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come.
Doctrine and Covenants 130:20     There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated--
Doctrine and Covenants 130:21     And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated.
Doctrine and Covenants 130:22     The Father has a body of flesh and bones as tangible as man's; the Son also; but the Holy Ghost has not a body of flesh and bones, but is a personage of Spirit. Were it not so, the Holy Ghost could not dwell in us.
Doctrine and Covenants 130:23     A man may receive the Holy Ghost, and it may descend upon him and not tarry with him.
Doctrine and Covenants 131:1     In the celestial glory there are three heavens or degrees;
Doctrine and Covenants 131:2     And in order to obtain the highest, a man must enter into this order of the priesthood [meaning the new and everlasting covenant of marriage];
Doctrine and Covenants 131:3     And if he does not, he cannot obtain it.
Doctrine and Covenants 131:4     He may enter into the other, but that is the end of his kingdom; he cannot have an increase.
Doctrine and Covenants 131:5     (May 17th, 1843.) The more sure word of prophecy means a man's knowing that he is sealed up unto eternal life, by revelation and the spirit of prophecy, through the power of the Holy Priesthood.
Doctrine and Covenants 131:6     It is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance.
Doctrine and Covenants 131:7     There is no such thing as immaterial matter. All spirit is matter, but it is more fine or pure, and can only be discerned by purer eyes;
Doctrine and Covenants 131:8     We cannot see it; but when our bodies are purified we shall see that it is all matter.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:1     Verily, thus saith the Lord unto you my servant Joseph, that inasmuch as you have inquired of my hand to know and understand wherein I, the Lord, justified my servants Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, as also Moses, David and Solomon, my servants, as touching the principle and doctrine of their having many wives and concubines--
Doctrine and Covenants 132:2     Behold, and lo, I am the Lord thy God, and will answer thee as touching this matter.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:3     Therefore, prepare thy heart to receive and obey the instructions which I am about to give unto you; for all those who have this law revealed unto them must obey the same.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:4     For behold, I reveal unto you a new and an everlasting covenant; and if ye abide not that covenant, then are ye damned; for no one can reject this covenant and be permitted to enter into my glory.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:5     For all who will have a blessing at my hands shall abide the law which was appointed for that blessing, and the conditions thereof, as were instituted from before the foundation of the world.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:6     And as pertaining to the new and everlasting covenant, it was instituted for the fulness of my glory; and he that receiveth a fulness thereof must and shall abide the law, or he shall be damned, saith the Lord God.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:7     And verily I say unto you, that the conditions of this law are these: All covenants, contracts, bonds, obligations, oaths, vows, performances, connections, associations, or expectations, that are not made and entered into and sealed by the Holy Spirit of promise, of him who is anointed, both as well for time and for all eternity, and that too most holy, by revelation and commandment through the medium of mine anointed, whom I have appointed on the earth to hold this power (and I have appointed unto my servant Joseph to hold this power in the last days, and there is never but one on the earth at a time on whom this power and the keys of this priesthood are conferred), are of no efficacy, virtue, or force in and after the resurrection from the dead; for all contracts that are not made unto this end have an end when men are dead.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:8     Behold, mine house is a house of order, saith the Lord God, and not a house of confusion.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:9     Will I accept of an offering, saith the Lord, that is not made in my name?
Doctrine and Covenants 132:10     Or will I receive at your hands that which I have not appointed?
Doctrine and Covenants 132:11     And will I appoint unto you, saith the Lord, except it be by law, even as I and my Father ordained unto you, before the world was?
Doctrine and Covenants 132:12     I am the Lord thy God; and I give unto you this commandment--that no man shall come unto the Father but by me or by my word, which is my law, saith the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:13     And everything that is in the world, whether it be ordained of men, by thrones, or principalities, or powers, or things of name, whatsoever they may be, that are not by me or by my word, saith the Lord, shall be thrown down, and shall not remain after men are dead, neither in nor after the resurrection, saith the Lord your God.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:14     For whatsoever things remain are by me; and whatsoever things are not by me shall be shaken and destroyed.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:15     Therefore, if a man marry him a wife in the world, and he marry her not by me nor by my word, and he covenant with her so long as he is in the world and she with him, their covenant and marriage are not of force when they are dead, and when they are out of the world; therefore, they are not bound by any law when they are out of the world.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:16     Therefore, when they are out of the world they neither marry nor are given in marriage; but are appointed angels in heaven, which angels are ministering servants, to minister for those who are worthy of a far more, and an exceeding, and an eternal weight of glory.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:17     For these angels did not abide my law; therefore, they cannot be enlarged, but remain separately and singly, without exaltation, in their saved condition, to all eternity; and from henceforth are not gods, but are angels of God forever and ever.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:18     And again, verily I say unto you, if a man marry a wife, and make a covenant with her for time and for all eternity, if that covenant is not by me or by my word, which is my law, and is not sealed by the Holy Spirit of promise, through him whom I have anointed and appointed unto this power, then it is not valid neither of force when they are out of the world, because they are not joined by me, saith the Lord, neither by my word; when they are out of the world it cannot be received there, because the angels and the gods are appointed there, by whom they cannot pass; they cannot, therefore, inherit my glory; for my house is a house of order, saith the Lord God.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:19     And again, verily I say unto you, if a man marry a wife by my word, which is my law, and by the new and everlasting covenant, and it is sealed unto them by the Holy Spirit of promise, by him who is anointed, unto whom I have appointed this power and the keys of this priesthood; and it shall be said unto them--Ye shall come forth in the first resurrection; and if it be after the first resurrection, in the next resurrection; and shall inherit thrones, kingdoms, principalities, and powers, dominions, all heights and depths--then shall it be written in the Lamb's Book of Life, that he shall commit no murder whereby to shed innocent blood, and if ye abide in my covenant, and commit no murder whereby to shed innocent blood, it shall be done unto them in all things whatsoever my servant hath put upon them, in time, and through all eternity; and shall be of full force when they are out of the world; and they shall pass by the angels, and the gods, which are set there, to their exaltation and glory in all things, as hath been sealed upon their heads, which glory shall be a fulness and a continuation of the seeds forever and ever.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:20     Then shall they be gods, because they have no end; therefore shall they be from everlasting to everlasting, because they continue; then shall they be above all, because all things are subject unto them. Then shall they be gods, because they have all power, and the angels are subject unto them.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:21     Verily, verily, I say unto you, except ye abide my law ye cannot attain to this glory.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:22     For strait is the gate, and narrow the way that leadeth unto the exaltation and continuation of the lives, and few there be that find it, because ye receive me not in the world neither do ye know me.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:23     But if ye receive me in the world, then shall ye know me, and shall receive your exaltation; that where I am ye shall be also.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:24     This is eternal lives--to know the only wise and true God, and Jesus Christ, whom he hath sent. I am he. Receive ye, therefore, my law.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:25     Broad is the gate, and wide the way that leadeth to the deaths; and many there are that go in thereat, because they receive me not, neither do they abide in my law.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:26     Verily, verily, I say unto you, if a man marry a wife according to my word, and they are sealed by the Holy Spirit of promise, according to mine appointment, and he or she shall commit any sin or transgression of the new and everlasting covenant whatever, and all manner of blasphemies, and if they commit no murder wherein they shed innocent blood, yet they shall come forth in the first resurrection, and enter into their exaltation; but they shall be destroyed in the flesh, and shall be delivered unto the buffetings of Satan unto the day of redemption, saith the Lord God.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:27     The blasphemy against the Holy Ghost, which shall not be forgiven in the world nor out of the world, is in that ye commit murder wherein ye shed innocent blood, and assent unto my death, after ye have received my new and everlasting covenant, saith the Lord God; and he that abideth not this law can in nowise enter into my glory, but shall be damned, saith the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:28     I am the Lord thy God, and will give unto thee the law of my Holy Priesthood, as was ordained by me and my Father before the world was.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:29     Abraham received all things, whatsoever he received, by revelation and commandment, by my word, saith the Lord, and hath entered into his exaltation and sitteth upon his throne.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:30     Abraham received promises concerning his seed, and of the fruit of his loins--from whose loins ye are, namely, my servant Joseph--which were to continue so long as they were in the world; and as touching Abraham and his seed, out of the world they should continue; both in the world and out of the world should they continue as innumerable as the stars; or, if ye were to count the sand upon the seashore ye could not number them.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:31     This promise is yours also, because ye are of Abraham, and the promise was made unto Abraham; and by this law is the continuation of the works of my Father, wherein he glorifieth himself.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:32     Go ye, therefore, and do the works of Abraham; enter ye into my law and ye shall be saved.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:33     But if ye enter not into my law ye cannot receive the promise of my Father, which he made unto Abraham.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:34     God commanded Abraham, and Sarah gave Hagar to Abraham to wife. And why did she do it? Because this was the law; and from Hagar sprang many people. This, therefore, was fulfilling, among other things, the promises.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:35     Was Abraham, therefore, under condemnation? Verily I say unto you, Nay; for I, the Lord, commanded it.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:36     Abraham was commanded to offer his son Isaac; nevertheless, it was written: Thou shalt not kill. Abraham, however, did not refuse, and it was accounted unto him for righteousness.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:37     Abraham received concubines, and they bore him children; and it was accounted unto him for righteousness, because they were given unto him, and he abode in my law; as Isaac also and Jacob did none other things than that which they were commanded; and because they did none other things than that which they were commanded, they have entered into their exaltation, according to the promises, and sit upon thrones, and are not angels but are gods.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:38     David also received many wives and concubines, and also Solomon and Moses my servants, as also many others of my servants, from the beginning of creation until this time; and in nothing did they sin save in those things which they received not of me.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:39     David's wives and concubines were given unto him of me, by the hand of Nathan, my servant, and others of the prophets who had the keys of this power; and in none of these things did he sin against me save in the case of Uriah and his wife; and, therefore he hath fallen from his exaltation, and received his portion; and he shall not inherit them out of the world, for I gave them unto another, saith the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:40     I am the Lord thy God, and I gave unto thee, my servant Joseph, an appointment, and restore all things. Ask what ye will, and it shall be given unto you according to my word.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:41     And as ye have asked concerning adultery, verily, verily, I say unto you, if a man receiveth a wife in the new and everlasting covenant, and if she be with another man, and I have not appointed unto her by the holy anointing, she hath committed adultery and shall be destroyed.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:42     If she be not in the new and everlasting covenant, and she be with another man, she has committed adultery.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:43     And if her husband be with another woman, and he was under a vow, he hath broken his vow and hath committed adultery.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:44     And if she hath not committed adultery, but is innocent and hath not broken her vow, and she knoweth it, and I reveal it unto you, my servant Joseph, then shall you have power, by the power of my Holy Priesthood, to take her and give her unto him that hath not committed adultery but hath been faithful; for he shall be made ruler over many.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:45     For I have conferred upon you the keys and power of the priesthood, wherein I restore all things, and make known unto you all things in due time.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:46     And verily, verily, I say unto you, that whatsoever you seal on earth shall be sealed in heaven; and whatsoever you bind on earth, in my name and by my word, saith the Lord, it shall be eternally bound in the heavens; and whosesoever sins you remit on earth shall be remitted eternally in the heavens; and whosesoever sins you retain on earth shall be retained in heaven.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:47     And again, verily I say, whomsoever you bless I will bless, and whomsoever you curse I will curse, saith the Lord; for I, the Lord, am thy God.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:48     And again, verily I say unto you, my servant Joseph, that whatsoever you give on earth, and to whomsoever you give any one on earth, by my word and according to my law, it shall be visited with blessings and not cursings, and with my power, saith the Lord, and shall be without condemnation on earth and in heaven.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:49     For I am the Lord thy God, and will be with thee even unto the end of the world, and through all eternity; for verily I seal upon you your exaltation, and prepare a throne for you in the kingdom of my Father, with Abraham your father.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:50     Behold, I have seen your sacrifices, and will forgive all your sins; I have seen your sacrifices in obedience to that which I have told you. Go, therefore, and I make a way for your escape, as I accepted the offering of Abraham of his son Isaac.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:51     Verily, I say unto you: A commandment I give unto mine handmaid, Emma Smith, your wife, whom I have given unto you, that she stay herself and partake not of that which I commanded you to offer unto her; for I did it, saith the Lord, to prove you all, as I did Abraham, and that I might require an offering at your hand, by covenant and sacrifice.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:52     And let mine handmaid, Emma Smith, receive all those that have been given unto my servant Joseph, and who are virtuous and pure before me; and those who are not pure, and have said they were pure, shall be destroyed, saith the Lord God.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:53     For I am the Lord thy God, and ye shall obey my voice; and I give unto my servant Joseph that he shall be made ruler over many things; for he hath been faithful over a few things, and from henceforth I will strengthen him.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:54     And I command mine handmaid, Emma Smith, to abide and cleave unto my servant Joseph, and to none else. But if she will not abide this commandment she shall be destroyed, saith the Lord; for I am the Lord thy God, and will destroy her if she abide not in my law.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:55     But if she will not abide this commandment, then shall my servant Joseph do all things for her, even as he hath said; and I will bless him and multiply him and give unto him an hundred-fold in this world, of fathers and mothers, brothers and sisters, houses and lands, wives and children, and crowns of eternal lives in the eternal worlds.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:56     And again, verily I say, let mine handmaid forgive my servant Joseph his trespasses; and then shall she be forgiven her trespasses, wherein she has trespassed against me; and I, the Lord thy God, will bless her, and multiply her, and make her heart to rejoice.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:57     And again, I say, let not my servant Joseph put his property out of his hands, lest an enemy come and destroy him; for Satan seeketh to destroy; for I am the Lord thy God, and he is my servant; and behold, and lo, I am with him, as I was with Abraham, thy father, even unto his exaltation and glory.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:58     Now, as touching the law of the priesthood, there are many things pertaining thereunto.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:59     Verily, if a man be called of my Father, as was Aaron, by mine own voice, and by the voice of him that sent me, and I have endowed him with the keys of the power of this priesthood, if he do anything in my name, and according to my law and by my word, he will not commit sin, and I will justify him.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:60     Let no one, therefore, set on my servant Joseph; for I will justify him; for he shall do the sacrifice which I require at his hands for his transgressions, saith the Lord your God.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:61     And again, as pertaining to the law of the priesthood--if any man espouse a virgin, and desire to espouse another, and the first give her consent, and if he espouse the second, and they are virgins, and have vowed to no other man, then is he justified; he cannot commit adultery for they are given unto him; for he cannot commit adultery with that that belongeth unto him and to no one else.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:62     And if he have ten virgins given unto him by this law, he cannot commit adultery, for they belong to him, and they are given unto him; therefore is he justified.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:63     But if one or either of the ten virgins, after she is espoused, shall be with another man, she has committed adultery, and shall be destroyed; for they are given unto him to multiply and replenish the earth, according to my commandment, and to fulfil the promise which was given by my Father before the foundation of the world, and for their exaltation in the eternal worlds, that they may bear the souls of men; for herein is the work of my Father continued, that he may be glorified.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:64     And again, verily, verily, I say unto you, if any man have a wife, who holds the keys of this power, and he teaches unto her the law of my priesthood, as pertaining to these things, then shall she believe and administer unto him, or she shall be destroyed, saith the Lord your God; for I will destroy her; for I will magnify my name upon all those who receive and abide in my law.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:65     Therefore, it shall be lawful in me, if she receive not this law, for him to receive all things whatsoever I, the Lord his God, will give unto him, because she did not believe and administer unto him according to my word; and she then becomes the transgressor; and he is exempt from the law of Sarah, who administered unto Abraham according to the law when I commanded Abraham to take Hagar to wife.
Doctrine and Covenants 132:66     And now, as pertaining to this law, verily, verily, I say unto you, I will reveal more unto you, hereafter; therefore, let this suffice for the present. Behold, I am Alpha and Omega. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:1     Hearken, O ye people of my church, saith the Lord your God, and hear the word of the Lord concerning you--
Doctrine and Covenants 133:2     The Lord who shall suddenly come to his temple; the Lord who shall come down upon the world with a curse to judgment; yea, upon all the nations that forget God, and upon all the ungodly among you.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:3     For he shall make bare his holy arm in the eyes of all the nations, and all the ends of the earth shall see the salvation of their God.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:4     Wherefore, prepare ye, prepare ye, O my people; sanctify yourselves; gather ye together, O ye people of my church, upon the land of Zion, all you that have not been commanded to tarry.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:5     Go ye out from Babylon. Be ye clean that bear the vessels of the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:6     Call your solemn assemblies, and speak often one to another. And let every man call upon the name of the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:7     Yea, verily I say unto you again, the time has come when the voice of the Lord is unto you: Go ye out of Babylon; gather ye out from among the nations, from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:8     Send forth the elders of my church unto the nations which are afar off; unto the islands of the sea; send forth unto foreign lands; call upon all nations, first upon the Gentiles, and then upon the Jews.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:9     And behold, and lo, this shall be their cry, and the voice of the Lord unto all people: Go ye forth unto the land of Zion, that the borders of my people may be enlarged, and that her stakes may be strengthened, and that Zion may go forth unto the regions round about.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:10     Yea, let the cry go forth among all people: Awake and arise and go forth to meet the Bridegroom; behold and lo, the Bridegroom cometh; go ye out to meet him. Prepare yourselves for the great day of the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:11     Watch, therefore, for ye know neither the day nor the hour.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:12     Let them, therefore, who are among the Gentiles flee unto Zion.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:13     And let them who be of Judah flee unto Jerusalem, unto the mountains of the Lord's house.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:14     Go ye out from among the nations, even from Babylon, from the midst of wickedness, which is spiritual Babylon.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:15     But verily, thus saith the Lord, let not your flight be in haste, but let all things be prepared before you; and he that goeth, let him not look back lest sudden destruction shall come upon him.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:16     Hearken and hear, O ye inhabitants of the earth. Listen, ye elders of my church together, and hear the voice of the Lord; for he calleth upon all men, and he commandeth all men everywhere to repent.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:17     For behold, the Lord God hath sent forth the angel crying through the midst of heaven, saying: Prepare ye the way of the Lord, and make his paths straight, for the hour of his coming is nigh--
Doctrine and Covenants 133:18     When the Lamb shall stand upon Mount Zion, and with him a hundred and forty-four thousand, having his Father's name written on their foreheads.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:19     Wherefore, prepare ye for the coming of the Bridegroom; go ye, go ye out to meet him.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:20     For behold, he shall stand upon the mount of Olivet, and upon the mighty ocean, even the great deep, and upon the islands of the sea, and upon the land of Zion.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:21     And he shall utter his voice out of Zion, and he shall speak from Jerusalem, and his voice shall be heard among all people;
Doctrine and Covenants 133:22     And it shall be a voice as the voice of many waters, and as the voice of a great thunder, which shall break down the mountains, and the valleys shall not be found.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:23     He shall command the great deep, and it shall be driven back into the north countries, and the islands shall become one land;
Doctrine and Covenants 133:24     And the land of Jerusalem and the land of Zion shall be turned back into their own place, and the earth shall be like as it was in the days before it was divided.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:25     And the Lord, even the Savior, shall stand in the midst of his people, and shall reign over all flesh.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:26     And they who are in the north countries shall come in remembrance before the Lord; and their prophets shall hear his voice, and shall no longer stay themselves; and they shall smite the rocks, and the ice shall flow down at their presence.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:27     And an highway shall be cast up in the midst of the great deep.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:28     Their enemies shall become a prey unto them,
Doctrine and Covenants 133:29     And in the barren deserts there shall come forth pools of living water; and the parched ground shall no longer be a thirsty land.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:30     And they shall bring forth their rich treasures unto the children of Ephraim, my servants.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:31     And the boundaries of the everlasting hills shall tremble at their presence.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:32     And there shall they fall down and be crowned with glory, even in Zion, by the hands of the servants of the Lord, even the children of Ephraim.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:33     And they shall be filled with songs of everlasting joy.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:34     Behold, this is the blessing of the everlasting God upon the tribes of Israel, and the richer blessing upon the head of Ephraim and his fellows.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:35     And they also of the tribe of Judah, after their pain, shall be sanctified in holiness before the Lord, to dwell in his presence day and night, forever and ever.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:36     And now, verily saith the Lord, that these things might be known among you, O inhabitants of the earth, I have sent forth mine angel flying through the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel, who hath appeared unto some and hath committed it unto man, who shall appear unto many that dwell on the earth.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:37     And this gospel shall be preached unto every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:38     And the servants of God shall go forth, saying with a loud voice: Fear God and give glory to him, for the hour of his judgment is come;
Doctrine and Covenants 133:39     And worship him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters--
Doctrine and Covenants 133:40     Calling upon the name of the Lord day and night, saying: O that thou wouldst rend the heavens, that thou wouldst come down, that the mountains might flow down at thy presence.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:41     And it shall be answered upon their heads; for the presence of the Lord shall be as the melting fire that burneth, and as the fire which causeth the waters to boil.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:42     O Lord, thou shalt come down to make thy name known to thine adversaries, and all nations shall tremble at thy presence--
Doctrine and Covenants 133:43     When thou doest terrible things, things they look not for;
Doctrine and Covenants 133:44     Yea, when thou comest down, and the mountains flow down at thy presence, thou shalt meet him who rejoiceth and worketh righteousness, who remembereth thee in thy ways.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:45     For since the beginning of the world have not men heard nor perceived by the ear, neither hath any eye seen, O God, besides thee, how great things thou hast prepared for him that waiteth for thee.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:46     And it shall be said: Who is this that cometh down from God in heaven with dyed garments; yea, from the regions which are not known, clothed in his glorious apparel, traveling in the greatness of his strength?
Doctrine and Covenants 133:47     And he shall say: I am he who spake in righteousness, mighty to save.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:48     And the Lord shall be red in his apparel, and his garments like him that treadeth in the wine-vat.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:49     And so great shall be the glory of his presence that the sun shall hide his face in shame, and the moon shall withhold its light, and the stars shall be hurled from their places.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:50     And his voice shall be heard: I have trodden the wine-press alone, and have brought judgment upon all people; and none were with me;
Doctrine and Covenants 133:51     And I have trampled them in my fury, and I did tread upon them in mine anger, and their blood have I sprinkled upon my garments, and stained all my raiment; for this was the day of vengeance which was in my heart.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:52     And now the year of my redeemed is come; and they shall mention the loving kindness of their Lord, and all that he has bestowed upon them according to his goodness, and according to his loving kindness, forever and ever.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:53     In all their afflictions he was afflicted. And the angel of his presence saved them; and in his love, and in his pity, he redeemed them, and bore them, and carried them all the days of old;
Doctrine and Covenants 133:54     Yea, and Enoch also, and they who were with him; the prophets who were before him; and Noah also, and they who were before him; and Moses also, and they who were before him;
Doctrine and Covenants 133:55     And from Moses to Elijah, and from Elijah to John, who were with Christ in his resurrection, and the holy apostles, with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, shall be in the presence of the Lamb.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:56     And the graves of the saints shall be opened; and they shall come forth and stand on the right hand of the Lamb, when he shall stand upon Mount Zion, and upon the holy city, the New Jerusalem; and they shall sing the song of the Lamb, day and night forever and ever.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:57     And for this cause, that men might be made partakers of the glories which were to be revealed, the Lord sent forth the fulness of his gospel, his everlasting covenant, reasoning in plainness and simplicity--
Doctrine and Covenants 133:58     To prepare the weak for those things which are coming on the earth, and for the Lord's errand in the day when the weak shall confound the wise, and the little one become a strong nation, and two shall put their tens of thousands to flight.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:59     And by the weak things of the earth the Lord shall thresh the nations by the power of his Spirit.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:60     And for this cause these commandments were given; they were commanded to be kept from the world in the day that they were given, but now are to go forth unto all flesh--
Doctrine and Covenants 133:61     And this according to the mind and will of the Lord, who ruleth over all flesh.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:62     And unto him that repenteth and sanctifieth himself before the Lord shall be given eternal life.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:63     And upon them that hearken not to the voice of the Lord shall be fulfilled that which was written by the prophet Moses, that they should be cut off from among the people.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:64     And also that which was written by the prophet Malachi: For, behold, the day cometh that shall burn as an oven, and all the proud, yea, and all that do wickedly, shall be stubble; and the day that cometh shall burn them up, saith the Lord of hosts, that it shall leave them neither root nor branch.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:65     Wherefore, this shall be the answer of the Lord unto them:
Doctrine and Covenants 133:66     In that day when I came unto mine own, no man among you received me, and you were driven out.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:67     When I called again there was none of you to answer; yet my arm was not shortened at all that I could not redeem, neither my power to deliver.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:68     Behold, at my rebuke I dry up the sea. I make the rivers a wilderness; their fish stink, and die for thirst.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:69     I clothe the heavens with blackness, and make sackcloth their covering.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:70     And this shall ye have of my hand--ye shall lie down in sorrow.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:71     Behold, and lo, there are none to deliver you; for ye obeyed not my voice when I called to you out of the heavens; ye believed not my servants, and when they were sent unto you ye received them not.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:72     Wherefore, they sealed up the testimony and bound up the law, and ye were delivered over unto darkness.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:73     These shall go away into outer darkness, where there is weeping, and wailing, and gnashing of teeth.
Doctrine and Covenants 133:74     Behold the Lord your God hath spoken it. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 134:1     We believe that governments were instituted of God for the benefit of man; and that he holds men accountable for their acts in relation to them, both in making laws and administering them, for the good and safety of society.
Doctrine and Covenants 134:2     We believe that no government can exist in peace, except such laws are framed and held inviolate as will secure to each individual the free exercise of conscience, the right and control of property, and the protection of life.
Doctrine and Covenants 134:3     We believe that all governments necessarily require civil officers and magistrates to enforce the laws of the same; and that such as will administer the law in equity and justice should be sought for and upheld by the voice of the people if a republic, or the will of the sovereign.
Doctrine and Covenants 134:4     We believe that religion is instituted of God; and that men are amenable to him, and to him only, for the exercise of it, unless their religious opinions prompt them to infringe upon the rights and liberties of others; but we do not believe that human law has a right to interfere in prescribing rules of worship to bind the consciences of men, nor dictate forms for public or private devotion; that the civil magistrate should restrain crime, but never control conscience; should punish guilt, but never suppress the freedom of the soul.
Doctrine and Covenants 134:5     We believe that all men are bound to sustain and uphold the respective governments in which they reside, while protected in their inherent and inalienable rights by the laws of such governments; and that sedition and rebellion are unbecoming every citizen thus protected, and should be punished accordingly; and that all governments have a right to enact such laws as in their own judgments are best calculated to secure the public interest; at the same time, however, holding sacred the freedom of conscience.
Doctrine and Covenants 134:6     We believe that every man should be honored in his station, rulers and magistrates as such, being placed for the protection of the innocent and the punishment of the guilty; and that to the laws all men owe respect and deference, as without them peace and harmony would be supplanted by anarchy and terror; human laws being instituted for the express purpose of regulating our interests as individuals and nations, between man and man; and divine laws given of heaven, prescribing rules on spiritual concerns, for faith and worship, both to be answered by man to his Maker.
Doctrine and Covenants 134:7     We believe that rulers, states, and governments have a right, and are bound to enact laws for the protection of all citizens in the free exercise of their religious belief; but we do not believe that they have a right in justice to deprive citizens of this privilege, or proscribe them in their opinions, so long as a regard and reverence are shown to the laws and such religious opinions do not justify sedition nor conspiracy.
Doctrine and Covenants 134:8     We believe that the commission of crime should be punished according to the nature of the offense; that murder, treason, robbery, theft, and the breach of the general peace, in all respects, should be punished according to their criminality and their tendency to evil among men, by the laws of that government in which the offense is committed; and for the public peace and tranquility all men should step forward and use their ability in bringing offenders against good laws to punishment.
Doctrine and Covenants 134:9     We do not believe it just to mingle religious influence with civil government, whereby one religious society is fostered and another proscribed in its spiritual privileges, and the individual rights of its members, as citizens, denied.
Doctrine and Covenants 134:10     We believe that all religious societies have a right to deal with their members for disorderly conduct, according to the rules and regulations of such societies; provided that such dealings be for fellowship and good standing; but we do not believe that any religious society has authority to try men on the right of property or life, to take from them this world's goods, or to put them in jeopardy of either life or limb, or to inflict any physical punishment upon them. They can only excommunicate them from their society, and withdraw from them their fellowship.
Doctrine and Covenants 134:11     We believe that men should appeal to the civil law for redress of all wrongs and grievances, where personal abuse is inflicted or the right of property or character infringed, where such laws exist as will protect the same; but we believe that all men are justified in defending themselves, their friends, and property, and the government, from the unlawful assaults and encroachments of all persons in times of exigency, where immediate appeal cannot be made to the laws, and relief afforded.
Doctrine and Covenants 134:12     We believe it just to preach the gospel to the nations of the earth, and warn the righteous to save themselves from the corruption of the world; but we do not believe it right to interfere with bond-servants, neither preach the gospel to, nor baptize them contrary to the will and wish of their masters, nor to meddle with or influence them in the least to cause them to be dissatisfied with their situations in this life, thereby jeopardizing the lives of men; such interference we believe to be unlawful and unjust, and dangerous to the peace of every government allowing human beings to be held in servitude.
Doctrine and Covenants 135:1     To seal the testimony of this book and the Book of Mormon, we announce the martyrdom of Joseph Smith the Prophet, and Hyrum Smith the Patriarch. They were shot in Carthage jail, on the 27th of June, 1844, about five o'clock p.m., by an armed mob--painted black--of from 150 to 200 persons. Hyrum was shot first and fell calmly, exclaiming: I am a dead man! Joseph leaped from the window, and was shot dead in the attempt, exclaiming: O Lord my God! They were both shot after they were dead, in a brutal manner, and both received four balls.
Doctrine and Covenants 135:2     John Taylor and Willard Richards, two of the Twelve, were the only persons in the room at the time; the former was wounded in a savage manner with four balls, but has since recovered; the latter, through the providence of God, escaped, without even a hole in his robe.
Doctrine and Covenants 135:3     Joseph Smith, the Prophet and Seer of the Lord, has done more, save Jesus only, for the salvation of men in this world, than any other man that ever lived in it. In the short space of twenty years, he has brought forth the Book of Mormon, which he translated by the gift and power of God, and has been the means of publishing it on two continents; has sent the fulness of the everlasting gospel, which it contained, to the four quarters of the earth; has brought forth the revelations and commandments which compose this book of Doctrine and Covenants, and many other wise documents and instructions for the benefit of the children of men; gathered many thousands of the Latter-day Saints, founded a great city, and left a fame and name that cannot be slain. He lived great, and he died great in the eyes of God and his people; and like most of the Lord's anointed in ancient times, has sealed his mission and his works with his own blood; and so has his brother Hyrum. In life they were not divided, and in death they were not separated!
Doctrine and Covenants 135:4     When Joseph went to Carthage to deliver himself up to the pretended requirements of the law, two or three days previous to his assassination, he said: "I am going like a lamb to the slaughter; but I am calm as a summer's morning; I have a conscience void of offense towards God, and towards all men. I shall die innocent, and it shall yet be said of me--he was murdered in cold blood."--The same morning, after Hyrum had made ready to go--shall it be said to the slaughter? yes, for so it was--he read the following paragraph, near the close of the twelfth chapter of Ether, in the Book of Mormon, and turned down the leaf upon it:
Doctrine and Covenants 135:5     And it came to pass that I prayed unto the Lord that he would give unto the Gentiles grace, that they might have charity. And it came to pass that the Lord said unto me: If they have not charity it mattereth not unto thee, thou hast been faithful; wherefore thy garments shall be made clean. And because thou hast seen thy weakness, thou shalt be made strong, even unto the sitting down in the place which I have prepared in the mansions of my Father. And now I ... bid farewell unto the Gentiles; yea, and also unto my brethren whom I love, until we shall meet before the judgment-seat of Christ, where all men shall know that my garments are not spotted with your blood. The testators are now dead, and their testament is in force.
Doctrine and Covenants 135:6     Hyrum Smith was forty-four years old in February, 1844, and Joseph Smith was thirty-eight in December, 1843; and henceforward their names will be classed among the martyrs of religion; and the reader in every nation will be reminded that the Book of Mormon, and this book of Doctrine and Covenants of the church, cost the best blood of the nineteenth century to bring them forth for the salvation of a ruined world; and that if the fire can scathe a green tree for the glory of God, how easy it will burn up the dry trees to purify the vineyard of corruption. They lived for glory; they died for glory; and glory is their eternal reward. From age to age shall their names go down to posterity as gems for the sanctified.
Doctrine and Covenants 135:7     They were innocent of any crime, as they had often been proved before, and were only confined in jail by the conspiracy of traitors and wicked men; and their innocent blood on the floor of Carthage jail is a broad seal affixed to "Mormonism" that cannot be rejected by any court on earth, and their innocent blood on the escutcheon of the State of Illinois, with the broken faith of the State as pledged by the governor, is a witness to the truth of the everlasting gospel that all the world cannot impeach; and their innocent blood on the banner of liberty, and on the magna charta of the United States, is an ambassador for the religion of Jesus Christ, that will touch the hearts of honest men among all nations; and their innocent blood, with the innocent blood of all the martyrs under the altar that John saw, will cry unto the Lord of Hosts till he avenges that blood on the earth. Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 136:1     The Word and Will of the Lord concerning the Camp of Israel in their journeyings to the West:
Doctrine and Covenants 136:2     Let all the people of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and those who journey with them, be organized into companies, with a covenant and promise to keep all the commandments and statutes of the Lord our God.
Doctrine and Covenants 136:3     Let the companies be organized with captains of hundreds, captains of fifties, and captains of tens, with a president and his two counselors at their head, under the direction of the Twelve Apostles.
Doctrine and Covenants 136:4     And this shall be our covenant--that we will walk in all the ordinances of the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 136:5     Let each company provide themselves with all the teams, wagons, provisions, clothing, and other necessaries for the journey, that they can.
Doctrine and Covenants 136:6     When the companies are organized let them go to with their might, to prepare for those who are to tarry.
Doctrine and Covenants 136:7     Let each company, with their captains and presidents, decide how many can go next spring; then choose out a sufficient number of able-bodied and expert men, to take teams, seeds, and farming utensils, to go as pioneers to prepare for putting in spring crops.
Doctrine and Covenants 136:8     Let each company bear an equal proportion, according to the dividend of their property, in taking the poor, the widows, the fatherless, and the families of those who have gone into the army, that the cries of the widow and the fatherless come not up into the ears of the Lord against this people.
Doctrine and Covenants 136:9     Let each company prepare houses, and fields for raising grain, for those who are to remain behind this season; and this is the will of the Lord concerning his people.
Doctrine and Covenants 136:10     Let every man use all his influence and property to remove this people to the place where the Lord shall locate a stake of Zion.
Doctrine and Covenants 136:11     And if ye do this with a pure heart, in all faithfulness, ye shall be blessed; you shall be blessed in your flocks, and in your herds, and in your fields, and in your houses, and in your families.
Doctrine and Covenants 136:12     Let my servants Ezra T. Benson and Erastus Snow organize a company.
Doctrine and Covenants 136:13     And let my servants Orson Pratt and Wilford Woodruff organize a company.
Doctrine and Covenants 136:14     Also, let my servants Amasa Lyman and George A. Smith organize a company.
Doctrine and Covenants 136:15     And appoint presidents, and captains of hundreds, and of fifties, and of tens.
Doctrine and Covenants 136:16     And let my servants that have been appointed go and teach this, my will, to the saints, that they may be ready to go to a land of peace.
Doctrine and Covenants 136:17     Go thy way and do as I have told you, and fear not thine enemies; for they shall not have power to stop my work.
Doctrine and Covenants 136:18     Zion shall be redeemed in mine own due time.
Doctrine and Covenants 136:19     And if any man shall seek to build up himself, and seeketh not my counsel, he shall have no power, and his folly shall be made manifest.
Doctrine and Covenants 136:20     Seek ye; and keep all your pledges one with another; and covet not that which is thy brother's.
Doctrine and Covenants 136:21     Keep yourselves from evil to take the name of the Lord in vain, for I am the Lord your God, even the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham and of Isaac and of Jacob.
Doctrine and Covenants 136:22     I am he who led the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt; and my arm is stretched out in the last days, to save my people Israel.
Doctrine and Covenants 136:23     Cease to contend one with another; cease to speak evil one of another.
Doctrine and Covenants 136:24     Cease drunkenness; and let your words tend to edifying one another.
Doctrine and Covenants 136:25     If thou borrowest of thy neighbor, thou shalt restore that which thou hast borrowed; and if thou canst not repay then go straightway and tell thy neighbor, lest he condemn thee.
Doctrine and Covenants 136:26     If thou shalt find that which thy neighbor has lost, thou shalt make diligent search till thou shalt deliver it to him again.
Doctrine and Covenants 136:27     Thou shalt be diligent in preserving what thou hast, that thou mayest be a wise steward; for it is the free gift of the Lord thy God, and thou art his steward.
Doctrine and Covenants 136:28     If thou art merry, praise the Lord with singing, with music, with dancing, and with a prayer of praise and thanksgiving.
Doctrine and Covenants 136:29     If thou art sorrowful, call on the Lord thy God with supplication, that your souls may be joyful.
Doctrine and Covenants 136:30     Fear not thine enemies, for they are in mine hands and I will do my pleasure with them.
Doctrine and Covenants 136:31     My people must be tried in all things, that they may be prepared to receive the glory that I have for them, even the glory of Zion; and he that will not bear chastisement is not worthy of my kingdom.
Doctrine and Covenants 136:32     Let him that is ignorant learn wisdom by humbling himself and calling upon the Lord his God, that his eyes may be opened that he may see, and his ears opened that he may hear;
Doctrine and Covenants 136:33     For my Spirit is sent forth into the world to enlighten the humble and contrite, and to the condemnation of the ungodly.
Doctrine and Covenants 136:34     Thy brethren have rejected you and your testimony, even the nation that has driven you out;
Doctrine and Covenants 136:35     And now cometh the day of their calamity, even the days of sorrow, like a woman that is taken in travail; and their sorrow shall be great unless they speedily repent, yea, very speedily.
Doctrine and Covenants 136:36     For they killed the prophets, and them that were sent unto them; and they have shed innocent blood, which crieth from the ground against them.
Doctrine and Covenants 136:37     Therefore, marvel not at these things, for ye are not yet pure; ye can not yet bear my glory; but ye shall behold it if ye are faithful in keeping all my words that I have given you, from the days of Adam to Abraham, from Abraham to Moses, from Moses to Jesus and his apostles, and from Jesus and his apostles to Joseph Smith, whom I did call upon by mine angels, my ministering servants, and by mine own voice out of the heavens, to bring forth my work;
Doctrine and Covenants 136:38     Which foundation he did lay, and was faithful; and I took him to myself.
Doctrine and Covenants 136:39     Many have marveled because of his death; but it was needful that he should seal his testimony with his blood, that he might be honored and the wicked might be condemned.
Doctrine and Covenants 136:40     Have I not delivered you from your enemies, only in that I have left a witness of my name?
Doctrine and Covenants 136:41     Now, therefore, hearken, O ye people of my church; and ye elders listen together; you have received my kingdom.
Doctrine and Covenants 136:42     Be diligent in keeping all my commandments, lest judgments come upon you, and your faith fail you, and your enemies triumph over you. So no more at present. Amen and Amen.
Doctrine and Covenants 137:1     The heavens were opened upon us, and I beheld the celestial kingdom of God, and the glory thereof, whether in the body or out I cannot tell.
Doctrine and Covenants 137:2     I saw the transcendent beauty of the gate through which the heirs of that kingdom will enter, which was like unto circling flames of fire;
Doctrine and Covenants 137:3     Also the blazing throne of God, whereon was seated the Father and the Son.
Doctrine and Covenants 137:4     I saw the beautiful streets of that kingdom, which had the appearance of being paved with gold.
Doctrine and Covenants 137:5     I saw Father Adam and Abraham; and my father and my mother; my brother Alvin, that has long since slept;
Doctrine and Covenants 137:6     And marveled how it was that he had obtained an inheritance in that kingdom, seeing that he had departed this life before the Lord had set his hand to gather Israel the second time, and had not been baptized for the remission of sins.
Doctrine and Covenants 137:7     Thus came the voice of the Lord unto me, saying: All who have died without a knowledge of this gospel, who would have received it if they had been permitted to tarry, shall be heirs of the celestial kingdom of God;
Doctrine and Covenants 137:8     Also all that shall die henceforth without a knowledge of it, who would have received it with all their hearts, shall be heirs of that kingdom;
Doctrine and Covenants 137:9     For I, the Lord, will judge all men according to their works, according to the desire of their hearts.
Doctrine and Covenants 137:10     And I also beheld that all children who die before they arrive at the years of accountability are saved in the celestial kingdom of heaven.
Doctrine and Covenants 138:1     On the third of October, in the year nineteen hundred and eighteen, I sat in my room pondering over the scriptures;
Doctrine and Covenants 138:2     And reflecting upon the great atoning sacrifice that was made by the Son of God, for the redemption of the world;
Doctrine and Covenants 138:3     And the great and wonderful love made manifest by the Father and the Son in the coming of the Redeemer into the world;
Doctrine and Covenants 138:4     That through his atonement, and by obedience to the principles of the gospel, mankind might be saved.
Doctrine and Covenants 138:5     While I was thus engaged, my mind reverted to the writings of the apostle Peter, to the primitive saints scattered abroad throughout Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, and other parts of Asia, where the gospel had been preached after the crucifixion of the Lord.
Doctrine and Covenants 138:6     I opened the Bible and read the third and fourth chapters of the first epistle of Peter, and as I read I was greatly impressed, more than I had ever been before, with the following passages:
Doctrine and Covenants 138:7     "For Christ also hath once suffered for sins, the just for the unjust, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but quickened by the Spirit:
Doctrine and Covenants 138:8     "By which also he went and preached unto the spirits in prison;
Doctrine and Covenants 138:9     "Which sometime were disobedient, when once the longsuffering of God waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was a preparing, wherein few, that is, eight souls were saved by water." (1 Peter 3:18-20.)
Doctrine and Covenants 138:10     "For for this cause was the gospel preached also to them that are dead, that they might be judged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the spirit." (1 Peter 4:6.)
Doctrine and Covenants 138:11     As I pondered over these things which are written, the eyes of my understanding were opened, and the Spirit of the Lord rested upon me, and I saw the hosts of the dead, both small and great.
Doctrine and Covenants 138:12     And there were gathered together in one place an innumerable company of the spirits of the just, who had been faithful in the testimony of Jesus while they lived in mortality;
Doctrine and Covenants 138:13     And who had offered sacrifice in the similitude of the great sacrifice of the Son of God, and had suffered tribulation in their Redeemer's name.
Doctrine and Covenants 138:14     All these had departed the mortal life, firm in the hope of a glorious resurrection, through the grace of God the Father and his Only Begotten Son, Jesus Christ.
Doctrine and Covenants 138:15     I beheld that they were filled with joy and gladness, and were rejoicing together because the day of their deliverance was at hand.
Doctrine and Covenants 138:16     They were assembled awaiting the advent of the Son of God into the spirit world, to declare their redemption from the bands of death.
Doctrine and Covenants 138:17     Their sleeping dust was to be restored unto its perfect frame, bone to his bone, and the sinews and the flesh upon them, the spirit and the body to be united never again to be divided, that they might receive a fulness of joy.
Doctrine and Covenants 138:18     While this vast multitude waited and conversed, rejoicing in the hour of their deliverance from the chains of death, the Son of God appeared, declaring liberty to the captives who had been faithful;
Doctrine and Covenants 138:19     And there he preached to them the everlasting gospel, the doctrine of the resurrection and the redemption of mankind from the fall, and from individual sins on conditions of repentance.
Doctrine and Covenants 138:20     But unto the wicked he did not go, and among the ungodly and the unrepentant who had defiled themselves while in the flesh, his voice was not raised;
Doctrine and Covenants 138:21     Neither did the rebellious who rejected the testimonies and the warnings of the ancient prophets behold his presence, nor look upon his face.
Doctrine and Covenants 138:22     Where these were, darkness reigned, but among the righteous there was peace;
Doctrine and Covenants 138:23     And the saints rejoiced in their redemption, and bowed the knee and acknowledged the Son of God as their Redeemer and Deliverer from death and the chains of hell.
Doctrine and Covenants 138:24     Their countenances shone, and the radiance from the presence of the Lord rested upon them, and they sang praises unto his holy name.
Doctrine and Covenants 138:25     I marveled, for I understood that the Savior spent about three years in his ministry among the Jews and those of the house of Israel, endeavoring to teach them the everlasting gospel and call them unto repentance;
Doctrine and Covenants 138:26     And yet, notwithstanding his mighty works, and miracles, and proclamation of the truth, in great power and authority, there were but few who hearkened to his voice, and rejoiced in his presence, and received salvation at his hands.
Doctrine and Covenants 138:27     But his ministry among those who were dead was limited to the brief time intervening between the crucifixion and his resurrection;
Doctrine and Covenants 138:28     And I wondered at the words of Peter--wherein he said that the Son of God preached unto the spirits in prison, who sometime were disobedient, when once the long-suffering of God waited in the days of Noah--and how it was possible for him to preach to those spirits and perform the necessary labor among them in so short a time.
Doctrine and Covenants 138:29     And as I wondered, my eyes were opened, and my understanding quickened, and I perceived that the Lord went not in person among the wicked and the disobedient who had rejected the truth, to teach them;
Doctrine and Covenants 138:30     But behold, from among the righteous, he organized his forces and appointed messengers, clothed with power and authority, and commissioned them to go forth and carry the light of the gospel to them that were in darkness, even to all the spirits of men; and thus was the gospel preached to the dead.
Doctrine and Covenants 138:31     And the chosen messengers went forth to declare the acceptable day of the Lord and proclaim liberty to the captives who were bound, even unto all who would repent of their sins and receive the gospel.
Doctrine and Covenants 138:32     Thus was the gospel preached to those who had died in their sins, without a knowledge of the truth, or in transgression, having rejected the prophets.
Doctrine and Covenants 138:33     These were taught faith in God, repentance from sin, vicarious baptism for the remission of sins, the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands,
Doctrine and Covenants 138:34     And all other principles of the gospel that were necessary for them to know in order to qualify themselves that they might be judged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the spirit.
Doctrine and Covenants 138:35     And so it was made known among the dead, both small and great, the unrighteous as well as the faithful, that redemption had been wrought through the sacrifice of the Son of God upon the cross.
Doctrine and Covenants 138:36     Thus was it made known that our Redeemer spent his time during his sojourn in the world of spirits, instructing and preparing the faithful spirits of the prophets who had testified of him in the flesh;
Doctrine and Covenants 138:37     That they might carry the message of redemption unto all the dead, unto whom he could not go personally, because of their rebellion and transgression, that they through the ministration of his servants might also hear his words.
Doctrine and Covenants 138:38     Among the great and mighty ones who were assembled in this vast congregation of the righteous were Father Adam, the Ancient of Days and father of all,
Doctrine and Covenants 138:39     And our glorious Mother Eve, with many of her faithful daughters who had lived through the ages and worshiped the true and living God.
Doctrine and Covenants 138:40     Abel, the first martyr, was there, and his brother Seth, one of the mighty ones, who was in the express image of his father, Adam.
Doctrine and Covenants 138:41     Noah, who gave warning of the flood; Shem, the great high priest; Abraham, the father of the faithful; Isaac, Jacob, and Moses, the great law-giver of Israel;
Doctrine and Covenants 138:42     And Isaiah, who declared by prophecy that the Redeemer was anointed to bind up the broken-hearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the prison to them that were bound, were also there.
Doctrine and Covenants 138:43     Moreover, Ezekiel, who was shown in vision the great valley of dry bones, which were to be clothed upon with flesh, to come forth again in the resurrection of the dead, living souls;
Doctrine and Covenants 138:44     Daniel, who foresaw and foretold the establishment of the kingdom of God in the latter days, never again to be destroyed nor given to other people;
Doctrine and Covenants 138:45     Elias, who was with Moses on the Mount of Transfiguration;
Doctrine and Covenants 138:46     And Malachi, the prophet who testified of the coming of Elijah--of whom also Moroni spake to the Prophet Joseph Smith, declaring that he should come before the ushering in of the great and dreadful day of the Lord--were also there.
Doctrine and Covenants 138:47     The Prophet Elijah was to plant in the hearts of the children the promises made to their fathers,
Doctrine and Covenants 138:48     Foreshadowing the great work to be done in the temples of the Lord in the dispensation of the fulness of times, for the redemption of the dead, and the sealing of the children to their parents, lest the whole earth be smitten with a curse and utterly wasted at his coming.
Doctrine and Covenants 138:49     All these and many more, even the prophets who dwelt among the Nephites and testified of the coming of the Son of God, mingled in the vast assembly and waited for their deliverance,
Doctrine and Covenants 138:50     For the dead had looked upon the long absence of their spirits from their bodies as a bondage.
Doctrine and Covenants 138:51     These the Lord taught, and gave them power to come forth, after his resurrection from the dead, to enter into his Father's kingdom, there to be crowned with immortality and eternal life,
Doctrine and Covenants 138:52     And continue thenceforth their labor as had been promised by the Lord, and be partakers of all blessings which were held in reserve for them that love him.
Doctrine and Covenants 138:53     The Prophet Joseph Smith, and my father, Hyrum Smith, Brigham Young, John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, and other choice spirits who were reserved to come forth in the fulness of times to take part in laying the foundations of the great latter-day work,
Doctrine and Covenants 138:54     Including the building of the temples and the performance of ordinances therein for the redemption of the dead, were also in the spirit world.
Doctrine and Covenants 138:55     I observed that they were also among the noble and great ones who were chosen in the beginning to be rulers in the Church of God.
Doctrine and Covenants 138:56     Even before they were born, they, with many others, received their first lessons in the world of spirits and were prepared to come forth in the due time of the Lord to labor in his vineyard for the salvation of the souls of men.
Doctrine and Covenants 138:57     I beheld that the faithful elders of this dispensation, when they depart from mortal life, continue their labors in the preaching of the gospel of repentance and redemption, through the sacrifice of the Only Begotten Son of God, among those who are in darkness and under the bondage of sin in the great world of the spirits of the dead.
Doctrine and Covenants 138:58     The dead who repent will be redeemed, through obedience to the ordinances of the house of God,
Doctrine and Covenants 138:59     And after they have paid the penalty of their transgressions, and are washed clean, shall receive a reward according to their works, for they are heirs of salvation.
Doctrine and Covenants 138:60     Thus was the vision of the redemption of the dead revealed to me, and I bear record, and I know that this record is true, through the blessing of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, even so. Amen.

PEARL OF GREAT PRICE
Moses 1:1     The words of God, which he spake unto Moses at a time when Moses was caught up into an exceedingly high mountain,
Moses 1:2     And he saw God face to face, and he talked with him, and the glory of God was upon Moses; therefore Moses could endure his presence.
Moses 1:3     And God spake unto Moses, saying: Behold, I am the Lord God Almighty, and Endless is my name; for I am without beginning of days or end of years; and is not this endless?
Moses 1:4     And, behold, thou art my son; wherefore look, and I will show thee the workmanship of mine hands; but not all, for my works are without end, and also my words, for they never cease.
Moses 1:5     Wherefore, no man can behold all my works, except he behold all my glory; and no man can behold all my glory, and afterwards remain in the flesh on the earth.
Moses 1:6     And I have a work for thee, Moses, my son; and thou art in the similitude of mine Only Begotten; and mine Only Begotten is and shall be the Savior, for he is full of grace and truth; but there is no God beside me, and all things are present with me, for I know them all.
Moses 1:7     And now, behold, this one thing I show unto thee, Moses, my son, for thou art in the world, and now I show it unto thee.
Moses 1:8     And it came to pass that Moses looked, and beheld the world upon which he was created; and Moses beheld the world and the ends thereof, and all the children of men which are, and which were created; of the same he greatly marveled and wondered.
Moses 1:9     And the presence of God withdrew from Moses, that his glory was not upon Moses; and Moses was left unto himself. And as he was left unto himself, he fell unto the earth.
Moses 1:10     And it came to pass that it was for the space of many hours before Moses did again receive his natural strength like unto man; and he said unto himself: Now, for this cause I know that man is nothing, which thing I never had supposed.
Moses 1:11     But now mine own eyes have beheld God; but not my natural, but my spiritual eyes, for my natural eyes could not have beheld; for I should have withered and died in his presence; but his glory was upon me; and I beheld his face, for I was transfigured before him.
Moses 1:12     And it came to pass that when Moses had said these words, behold, Satan came tempting him, saying: Moses, son of man, worship me.
Moses 1:13     And it came to pass that Moses looked upon Satan and said: Who art thou? For behold, I am a son of God, in the similitude of his Only Begotten; and where is thy glory, that I should worship thee?
Moses 1:14     For behold, I could not look upon God, except his glory should come upon me, and I were transfigured before him. But I can look upon thee in the natural man. Is it not so, surely?
Moses 1:15     Blessed be the name of my God, for his Spirit hath not altogether withdrawn from me, or else where is thy glory, for it is darkness unto me? And I can judge between thee and God; for God said unto me: Worship God, for him only shalt thou serve.
Moses 1:16     Get thee hence, Satan; deceive me not; for God said unto me: Thou art after the similitude of mine Only Begotten.
Moses 1:17     And he also gave me commandments when he called unto me out of the burning bush, saying: Call upon God in the name of mine Only Begotten, and worship me.
Moses 1:18     And again Moses said: I will not cease to call upon God, I have other things to inquire of him: for his glory has been upon me, wherefore I can judge between him and thee. Depart hence, Satan.
Moses 1:19     And now, when Moses had said these words, Satan cried with a loud voice, and ranted upon the earth, and commanded, saying: I am the Only Begotten, worship me.
Moses 1:20     And it came to pass that Moses began to fear exceedingly; and as he began to fear, he saw the bitterness of hell. Nevertheless, calling upon God, he received strength, and he commanded, saying: Depart from me, Satan, for this one God only will I worship, which is the God of glory.
Moses 1:21     And now Satan began to tremble, and the earth shook; and Moses received strength, and called upon God, saying: In the name of the Only Begotten, depart hence, Satan.
Moses 1:22     And it came to pass that Satan cried with a loud voice, with weeping, and wailing, and gnashing of teeth; and he departed hence, even from the presence of Moses, that he beheld him not.
Moses 1:23     And now of this thing Moses bore record; but because of wickedness it is not had among the children of men.
Moses 1:24     And it came to pass that when Satan had departed from the presence of Moses, that Moses lifted up his eyes unto heaven, being filled with the Holy Ghost, which beareth record of the Father and the Son;
Moses 1:25     And calling upon the name of God, he beheld his glory again, for it was upon him; and he heard a voice, saying: Blessed art thou, Moses, for I, the Almighty, have chosen thee, and thou shalt be made stronger than many waters; for they shall obey thy command as if thou wert God.
Moses 1:26     And lo, I am with thee, even unto the end of thy days; for thou shalt deliver my people from bondage, even Israel my chosen.
Moses 1:27     And it came to pass, as the voice was still speaking, Moses cast his eyes and beheld the earth, yea, even all of it; and there was not a particle of it which he did not behold, discerning it by the Spirit of God.
Moses 1:28     And he beheld also the inhabitants thereof, and there was not a soul which he beheld not; and he discerned them by the Spirit of God; and their numbers were great, even numberless as the sand upon the sea shore.
Moses 1:29     And he beheld many lands; and each land was called earth, and there were inhabitants on the face thereof.
Moses 1:30     And it came to pass that Moses called upon God, saying: Tell me, I pray thee, why these things are so, and by what thou madest them?
Moses 1:31     And behold, the glory of the Lord was upon Moses, so that Moses stood in the presence of God, and talked with him face to face. And the Lord God said unto Moses: For mine own purpose have I made these things. Here is wisdom and it remaineth in me.
Moses 1:32     And by the word of my power, have I created them, which is mine Only Begotten Son, who is full of grace and truth.
Moses 1:33     And worlds without number have I created; and I also created them for mine own purpose; and by the Son I created them, which is mine Only Begotten.
Moses 1:34     And the first man of all men have I called Adam, which is many.
Moses 1:35     But only an account of this earth, and the inhabitants thereof, give I unto you. For behold, there are many worlds that have passed away by the word of my power. And there are many that now stand, and innumerable are they unto man; but all things are numbered unto me, for they are mine and I know them.
Moses 1:36     And it came to pass that Moses spake unto the Lord, saying: Be merciful unto thy servant, O God, and tell me concerning this earth, and the inhabitants thereof, and also the heavens, and then thy servant will be content.
Moses 1:37     And the Lord God spake unto Moses, saying: The heavens, they are many, and they cannot be numbered unto man; but they are numbered unto me, for they are mine.
Moses 1:38     And as one earth shall pass away, and the heavens thereof even so shall another come; and there is no end to my works, neither to my words.
Moses 1:39     For behold, this is my work and my glory--to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man.
Moses 1:40     And now, Moses, my son, I will speak unto thee concerning this earth upon which thou standest; and thou shalt write the things which I shall speak.
Moses 1:41     And in a day when the children of men shall esteem my words as naught and take many of them from the book which thou shalt write, behold, I will raise up another like unto thee; and they shall be had again among the children of men--among as many as shall believe.
Moses 1:42     (These words were spoken unto Moses in the mount, the name of which shall not be known among the children of men. And now they are spoken unto you. Show them not unto any except them that believe. Even so. Amen.)
Moses 2:1     And it came to pass that the Lord spake unto Moses, saying: Behold, I reveal unto you concerning this heaven, and this earth; write the words which I speak. I am the Beginning and the End, the Almighty God; by mine Only Begotten I created these things; yea, in the beginning I created the heaven, and the earth upon which thou standest.
Moses 2:2     And the earth was without form, and void; and I caused darkness to come up upon the face of the deep; and my Spirit moved upon the face of the water; for I am God.
Moses 2:3     And I, God, said: Let there be light; and there was light.
Moses 2:4     And I, God, saw the light; and that light was good. And I, God, divided the light from the darkness.
Moses 2:5     And I, God, called the light Day; and the darkness, I called Night; and this I did by the word of my power, and it was done as I spake; and the evening and the morning were the first day.
Moses 2:6     And again, I, God, said: Let there be a firmament in the midst of the water, and it was so, even as I spake; and I said: Let it divide the waters from the waters; and it was done;
Moses 2:7     And I, God, made the firmament and divided the waters, yea, the great waters under the firmament from the waters which were above the firmament, and it was so even as I spake.
Moses 2:8     And I, God, called the firmament Heaven; and the evening and the morning were the second day.
Moses 2:9     And I, God, said: Let the waters under the heaven be gathered together unto one place, and it was so; and I, God, said: Let there be dry land; and it was so.
Moses 2:10     And I, God, called the dry land Earth; and the gathering together of the waters, called I the Sea; and I, God, saw that all things which I had made were good.
Moses 2:11     And I, God, said: Let the earth bring forth grass, the herb yielding seed, the fruit tree yielding fruit, after his kind, and the tree yielding fruit, whose seed should be in itself upon the earth, and it was so even as I spake.
Moses 2:12     And the earth brought forth grass, every herb yielding seed after his kind, and the tree yielding fruit, whose seed should be in itself, after his kind; and I, God, saw that all things which I had made were good;
Moses 2:13     And the evening and the morning were the third day.
Moses 2:14     And I, God, said: Let there be lights in the firmament of the heaven, to divide the day from the night, and let them be for signs, and for seasons, and for days, and for years;
Moses 2:15     And let them be for lights in the firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth; and it was so.
Moses 2:16     And I, God, made two great lights; the greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night, and the greater light was the sun, and the lesser light was the moon; and the stars also were made even according to my word.
Moses 2:17     And I, God, set them in the firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth,
Moses 2:18     And the sun to rule over the day, and the moon to rule over the night, and to divide the light from the darkness; and I, God, saw that all things which I had made were good;
Moses 2:19     And the evening and the morning were the fourth day.
Moses 2:20     And I, God, said: Let the waters bring forth abundantly the moving creature that hath life, and fowl which may fly above the earth in the open firmament of heaven.
Moses 2:21     And I, God, created great whales, and every living creature that moveth, which the waters brought forth abundantly, after their kind, and every winged fowl after his kind; and I, God, saw that all things which I had created were good.
Moses 2:22     And I, God, blessed them, saying: Be fruitful, and multiply, and fill the waters in the sea; and let fowl multiply in the earth;
Moses 2:23     And the evening and the morning were the fifth day.
Moses 2:24     And I, God, said: Let the earth bring forth the living creature after his kind, cattle, and creeping things, and beasts of the earth after their kind, and it was so;
Moses 2:25     And I, God, made the beasts of the earth after their kind, and cattle after their kind, and everything which creepeth upon the earth after his kind; and I, God, saw that all these things were good.
Moses 2:26     And I, God, said unto mine Only Begotten, which was with me from the beginning: Let us make man in our image, after our likeness; and it was so. And I, God, said: Let them have dominion over the fishes of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth.
Moses 2:27     And I, God, created man in mine own image, in the image of mine Only Begotten created I him; male and female created I them.
Moses 2:28     And I, God, blessed them, and said unto them: Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it, and have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth.
Moses 2:29     And I, God, said unto man: Behold, I have given you every herb bearing seed, which is upon the face of all the earth, and every tree in the which shall be the fruit of a tree yielding seed; to you it shall be for meat.
Moses 2:30     And to every beast of the earth, and to every fowl of the air, and to everything that creepeth upon the earth, wherein I grant life, there shall be given every clean herb for meat; and it was so, even as I spake.
Moses 2:31     And I, God, saw everything that I had made, and, behold, all things which I had made were very good; and the evening and the morning were the sixth day.
Moses 3:1     Thus the heaven and the earth were finished, and all the host of them.
Moses 3:2     And on the seventh day I, God, ended my work, and all things which I had made; and I rested on the seventh day from all my work, and all things which I had made were finished, and I, God, saw that they were good;
Moses 3:3     And I, God, blessed the seventh day, and sanctified it; because that in it I had rested from all my work which I, God, had created and made.
Moses 3:4     And now, behold, I say unto you, that these are the generations of the heaven and of the earth, when they were created, in the day that I, the Lord God, made the heaven and the earth,
Moses 3:5     And every plant of the field before it was in the earth, and every herb of the field before it grew. For I, the Lord God, created all things, of which I have spoken, spiritually, before they were naturally upon the face of the earth. For I, the Lord God, had not caused it to rain upon the face of the earth. And I, the Lord God, had created all the children of men; and not yet a man to till the ground; for in heaven created I them; and there was not yet flesh upon the earth, neither in the water, neither in the air;
Moses 3:6     But I, the Lord God, spake, and there went up a mist from the earth, and watered the whole face of the ground.
Moses 3:7     And I, the Lord God, formed man from the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man became a living soul, the first flesh upon the earth, the first man also; nevertheless, all things were before created; but spiritually were they created and made according to my word.
Moses 3:8     And I, the Lord God, planted a garden eastward in Eden, and there I put the man whom I had formed.
Moses 3:9     And out of the ground made I, the Lord God, to grow every tree, naturally, that is pleasant to the sight of man; and man could behold it. And it became also a living soul. For it was spiritual in the day that I created it; for it remaineth in the sphere in which I, God, created it, yea, even all things which I prepared for the use of man; and man saw that it was good for food. And I, the Lord God, planted the tree of life also in the midst of the garden, and also the tree of knowledge of good and evil.
Moses 3:10     And I, the Lord God, caused a river to go out of Eden to water the garden; and from thence it was parted, and became into four heads.
Moses 3:11     And I, the Lord God, called the name of the first Pison, and it compasseth the whole land of Havilah, where I, the Lord God, created much gold;
Moses 3:12     And the gold of that land was good, and there was bdellium and the onyx stone.
Moses 3:13     And the name of the second river was called Gihon; the same that compasseth the whole land of Ethiopia.
Moses 3:14     And the name of the third river was Hiddekel; that which goeth toward the east of Assyria. And the fourth river was the Euphrates.
Moses 3:15     And I, the Lord God, took the man, and put him into the Garden of Eden, to dress it, and to keep it.
Moses 3:16     And I, the Lord God, commanded the man, saying: Of every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat,
Moses 3:17     But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it, nevertheless, thou mayest choose for thyself, for it is given unto thee; but, remember that I forbid it, for in the day thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die.
Moses 3:18     And I, the Lord God, said unto mine Only Begotten, that it was not good that the man should be alone; wherefore, I will make an help meet for him.
Moses 3:19     And out of the ground I, the Lord God, formed every beast of the field, and every fowl of the air; and commanded that they should come unto Adam, to see what he would call them; and they were also living souls; for I, God, breathed into them the breath of life, and commanded that whatsoever Adam called every living creature, that should be the name thereof.
Moses 3:20     And Adam gave names to all cattle, and to the fowl of the air, and to every beast of the field; but as for Adam, there was not found an help meet for him.
Moses 3:21     And I, the Lord God, caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam; and he slept, and I took one of his ribs and closed up the flesh in the stead thereof;
Moses 3:22     And the rib which I, the Lord God, had taken from man, made I a woman, and brought her unto the man.
Moses 3:23     And Adam said: This I know now is bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh; she shall be called Woman, because she was taken out of man.
Moses 3:24     Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife; and they shall be one flesh.
Moses 3:25     And they were both naked, the man and his wife, and were not ashamed.
Moses 4:1     And I, the Lord God, spake unto Moses, saying: That Satan, whom thou hast commanded in the name of mine Only Begotten, is the same which was from the beginning, and he came before me, saying--Behold, here am I, send me, I will be thy son, and I will redeem all mankind, that one soul shall not be lost, and surely I will do it; wherefore give me thine honor.
Moses 4:2     But, behold, my Beloved Son, which was my Beloved and Chosen from the beginning, said unto me--Father, thy will be done, and the glory be thine forever.
Moses 4:3     Wherefore, because that Satan rebelled against me, and sought to destroy the agency of man, which I, the Lord God, had given him, and also, that I should give unto him mine own power; by the power of mine Only Begotten, I caused that he should be cast down;
Moses 4:4     And he became Satan, yea, even the devil, the father of all lies, to deceive and to blind men, and to lead them captive at his will, even as many as would not hearken unto my voice.
Moses 4:5     And now the serpent was more subtle than any beast of the field which I, the Lord God, had made.
Moses 4:6     And Satan put it into the heart of the serpent, (for he had drawn away many after him,) and he sought also to beguile Eve, for he knew not the mind of God, wherefore he sought to destroy the world.
Moses 4:7     And he said unto the woman: Yea, hath God said--Ye shall not eat of every tree of the garden? (And he spake by the mouth of the serpent.)
Moses 4:8     And the woman said unto the serpent: We may eat of the fruit of the trees of the garden;
Moses 4:9     But of the fruit of the tree which thou beholdest in the midst of the garden, God hath said--Ye shall not eat of it, neither shall ye touch it, lest ye die.
Moses 4:10     And the serpent said unto the woman: Ye shall not surely die;
Moses 4:11     For God doth know that in the day ye eat thereof, then your eyes shall be opened, and ye shall be as gods, knowing good and evil.
Moses 4:12     And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it became pleasant to the eyes, and a tree to be desired to make her wise, she took of the fruit thereof, and did eat, and also gave unto her husband with her, and he did eat.
Moses 4:13     And the eyes of them both were opened, and they knew that they had been naked. And they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves aprons.
Moses 4:14     And they heard the voice of the Lord God, as they were walking in the garden, in the cool of the day; and Adam and his wife went to hide themselves from the presence of the Lord God amongst the trees of the garden.
Moses 4:15     And I, the Lord God, called unto Adam, and said unto him: Where goest thou?
Moses 4:16     And he said: I heard thy voice in the garden, and I was afraid, because I beheld that I was naked, and I hid myself.
Moses 4:17     And I, the Lord God, said unto Adam: Who told thee thou wast naked? Hast thou eaten of the tree whereof I commanded thee that thou shouldst not eat, if so thou shouldst surely die?
Moses 4:18     And the man said: The woman thou gavest me, and commandest that she should remain with me, she gave me of the fruit of the tree and I did eat.
Moses 4:19     And I, the Lord God, said unto the woman: What is this thing which thou hast done? And the woman said: The serpent beguiled me, and I did eat.
Moses 4:20     And I, the Lord God, said unto the serpent: Because thou hast done this thou shalt be cursed above all cattle, and above every beast of the field; upon thy belly shalt thou go, and dust shalt thou eat all the days of thy life;
Moses 4:21     And I will put enmity between thee and the woman, between thy seed and her seed; and he shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his heel.
Moses 4:22     Unto the woman, I, the Lord God, said: I will greatly multiply thy sorrow and thy conception. In sorrow thou shalt bring forth children, and thy desire shall be to thy husband, and he shall rule over thee.
Moses 4:23     And unto Adam, I, the Lord God, said: Because thou hast hearkened unto the voice of thy wife, and hast eaten of the fruit of the tree of which I commanded thee, saying--Thou shalt not eat of it, cursed shall be the ground for thy sake; in sorrow shalt thou eat of it all the days of thy life.
Moses 4:24     Thorns also, and thistles shall it bring forth to thee, and thou shalt eat the herb of the field.
Moses 4:25     By the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread, until thou shalt return unto the ground--for thou shalt surely die--for out of it wast thou taken: for dust thou wast, and unto dust shalt thou return.
Moses 4:26     And Adam called his wife's name Eve, because she was the mother of all living; for thus have I, the Lord God, called the first of all women, which are many.
Moses 4:27     Unto Adam, and also unto his wife, did I, the Lord God, make coats of skins, and clothed them.
Moses 4:28     And I, the Lord God, said unto mine Only Begotten: Behold, the man is become as one of us to know good and evil; and now lest he put forth his hand and partake also of the tree of life, and eat and live forever,
Moses 4:29     Therefore I, the Lord God, will send him forth from the Garden of Eden, to till the ground from whence he was taken;
Moses 4:30     For as I, the Lord God, liveth, even so my words cannot return void, for as they go forth out of my mouth they must be fulfilled.
Moses 4:31     So I drove out the man, and I placed at the east of the Garden of Eden, cherubim and a flaming sword, which turned every way to keep the way of the tree of life.
Moses 4:32     (And these are the words which I spake unto my servant Moses, and they are true even as I will; and I have spoken them unto you. See thou show them unto no man, until I command you, except to them that believe. Amen.)
Moses 5:1     And it came to pass that after I, the Lord God, had driven them out, that Adam began to till the earth, and to have dominion over all the beasts of the field, and to eat his bread by the sweat of his brow, as I the Lord had commanded him. And Eve, also, his wife, did labor with him.
Moses 5:2     And Adam knew his wife, and she bare unto him sons and daughters, and they began to multiply and to replenish the earth.
Moses 5:3     And from that time forth, the sons and daughters of Adam began to divide two and two in the land, and to till the land, and to tend flocks, and they also begat sons and daughters.
Moses 5:4     And Adam and Eve, his wife, called upon the name of the Lord, and they heard the voice of the Lord from the way toward the Garden of Eden, speaking unto them, and they saw him not; for they were shut out from his presence.
Moses 5:5     And he gave unto them commandments, that they should worship the Lord their God, and should offer the firstlings of their flocks, for an offering unto the Lord. And Adam was obedient unto the commandments of the Lord.
Moses 5:6     And after many days an angel of the Lord appeared unto Adam, saying: Why dost thou offer sacrifices unto the Lord? And Adam said unto him: I know not, save the Lord commanded me.
Moses 5:7     And then the angel spake, saying: This thing is a similitude of the sacrifice of the Only Begotten of the Father, which is full of grace and truth.
Moses 5:8     Wherefore, thou shalt do all that thou doest in the name of the Son, and thou shalt repent and call upon God in the name of the Son forevermore.
Moses 5:9     And in that day the Holy Ghost fell upon Adam, which beareth record of the Father and the Son, saying: I am the Only Begotten of the Father from the beginning, henceforth and forever, that as thou hast fallen thou mayest be redeemed, and all mankind, even as many as will.
Moses 5:10     And in that day Adam blessed God and was filled, and began to prophesy concerning all the families of the earth, saying: Blessed be the name of God, for because of my transgression my eyes are opened, and in this life I shall have joy, and again in the flesh I shall see God.
Moses 5:11     And Eve, his wife, heard all these things and was glad, saying: Were it not for our transgression we never should have had seed, and never should have known good and evil, and the joy of our redemption, and the eternal life which God giveth unto all the obedient.
Moses 5:12     And Adam and Eve blessed the name of God, and they made all things known unto their sons and their daughters.
Moses 5:13     And Satan came among them, saying: I am also a son of God; and he commanded them, saying: Believe it not; and they believed it not, and they loved Satan more than God. And men began from that time forth to be carnal, sensual, and devilish.
Moses 5:14     And the Lord God called upon men by the Holy Ghost everywhere and commanded them that they should repent;
Moses 5:15     And as many as believed in the Son, and repented of their sins, should be saved; and as many as believed not and repented not, should be damned; and the words went forth out of the mouth of God in a firm decree; wherefore they must be fulfilled.
Moses 5:16     And Adam and Eve, his wife, ceased not to call upon God. And Adam knew Eve his wife, and she conceived and bare Cain, and said: I have gotten a man from the Lord; wherefore he may not reject his words. But behold, Cain hearkened not, saying: Who is the Lord that I should know him?
Moses 5:17     And she again conceived and bare his brother Abel. And Abel hearkened unto the voice of the Lord. And Abel was a keeper of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground.
Moses 5:18     And Cain loved Satan more than God. And Satan commanded him, saying: Make an offering unto the Lord.
Moses 5:19     And in process of time it came to pass that Cain brought of the fruit of the ground an offering unto the Lord.
Moses 5:20     And Abel, he also brought of the firstlings of his flock, and of the fat thereof. And the Lord had respect unto Abel, and to his offering;
Moses 5:21     But unto Cain, and to his offering, he had not respect. Now Satan knew this, and it pleased him. And Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell.
Moses 5:22     And the Lord said unto Cain: Why art thou wroth? Why is thy countenance fallen?
Moses 5:23     If thou doest well, thou shalt be accepted. And if thou doest not well, sin lieth at the door, and Satan desireth to have thee; and except thou shalt hearken unto my commandments, I will deliver thee up, and it shall be unto thee according to his desire. And thou shalt rule over him;
Moses 5:24     For from this time forth thou shalt be the father of his lies; thou shalt be called Perdition; for thou wast also before the world.
Moses 5:25     And it shall be said in time to come--That these abominations were had from Cain; for he rejected the greater counsel which was had from God; and this is a cursing which I will put upon thee, except thou repent.
Moses 5:26     And Cain was wroth, and listened not any more to the voice of the Lord, neither to Abel, his brother, who walked in holiness before the Lord.
Moses 5:27     And Adam and his wife mourned before the Lord, because of Cain and his brethren.
Moses 5:28     And it came to pass that Cain took one of his brothers' daughters to wife, and they loved Satan more than God.
Moses 5:29     And Satan said unto Cain: Swear unto me by thy throat, and if thou tell it thou shalt die; and swear thy brethren by their heads, and by the living God, that they tell it not; for if they tell it, they shall surely die; and this that thy father may not know it; and this day I will deliver thy brother Abel into thine hands.
Moses 5:30     And Satan sware unto Cain that he would do according to his commands. And all these things were done in secret.
Moses 5:31     And Cain said: Truly I am Mahan, the master of this great secret, that I may murder and get gain. Wherefore Cain was called Master Mahan, and he gloried in his wickedness.
Moses 5:32     And Cain went into the field, and Cain talked with Abel, his brother. And it came to pass that while they were in the field, Cain rose up against Abel, his brother, and slew him.
Moses 5:33     And Cain gloried in that which he had done, saying: I am free; surely the flocks of my brother falleth into my hands.
Moses 5:34     And the Lord said unto Cain: Where is Abel, thy brother? And he said: I know not. Am I my brother's keeper?
Moses 5:35     And the Lord said: What hast thou done? The voice of thy brother's blood cries unto me from the ground.
Moses 5:36     And now thou shalt be cursed from the earth which hath opened her mouth to receive thy brother's blood from thy hand.
Moses 5:37     When thou tillest the ground it shall not henceforth yield unto thee her strength. A fugitive and a vagabond shalt thou be in the earth.
Moses 5:38     And Cain said unto the Lord: Satan tempted me because of my brother's flocks. And I was wroth also; for his offering thou didst accept and not mine; my punishment is greater than I can bear.
Moses 5:39     Behold thou hast driven me out this day from the face of the Lord, and from thy face shall I be hid; and I shall be a fugitive and a vagabond in the earth; and it shall come to pass, that he that findeth me will slay me, because of mine iniquities, for these things are not hid from the Lord.
Moses 5:40     And I the Lord said unto him: Whosoever slayeth thee, vengeance shall be taken on him sevenfold. And I the Lord set a mark upon Cain, lest any finding him should kill him.
Moses 5:41     And Cain was shut out from the presence of the Lord, and with his wife and many of his brethren dwelt in the land of Nod, on the east of Eden.
Moses 5:42     And Cain knew his wife, and she conceived and bare Enoch, and he also begat many sons and daughters. And he builded a city, and he called the name of the city after the name of his son, Enoch.
Moses 5:43     And unto Enoch was born Irad, and other sons and daughters. And Irad begat Mahujael, and other sons and daughters. And Mahujael begat Methusael, and other sons and daughters. And Methusael begat Lamech.
Moses 5:44     And Lamech took unto himself two wives; the name of one being Adah, and the name of the other, Zillah.
Moses 5:45     And Adah bare Jabal; he was the father of such as dwell in tents, and they were keepers of cattle; and his brother's name was Jubal, who was the father of all such as handle the harp and organ.
Moses 5:46     And Zillah, she also bare Tubal Cain, an instructor of every artificer in brass and iron. And the sister of Tubal Cain was called Naamah.
Moses 5:47     And Lamech said unto his wives, Adah and Zillah: Hear my voice, ye wives of Lamech, hearken unto my speech; for I have slain a man to my wounding, and a young man to my hurt.
Moses 5:48     If Cain shall be avenged sevenfold, truly Lamech shall be seventy and seven fold;
Moses 5:49     For Lamech having entered into a covenant with Satan, after the manner of Cain, wherein he became Master Mahan, master of that great secret which was administered unto Cain by Satan; and Irad, the son of Enoch, having known their secret, began to reveal it unto the sons of Adam;
Moses 5:50     Wherefore Lamech, being angry, slew him, not like unto Cain, his brother Abel, for the sake of getting gain, but he slew him for the oath's sake.
Moses 5:51     For, from the days of Cain, there was a secret combination, and their works were in the dark, and they knew every man his brother.
Moses 5:52     Wherefore the Lord cursed Lamech, and his house, and all them that had covenanted with Satan; for they kept not the commandments of God, and it displeased God, and he ministered not unto them, and their works were abominations, and began to spread among all the sons of men. And it was among the sons of men.
Moses 5:53     And among the daughters of men these things were not spoken, because that Lamech had spoken the secret unto his wives, and they rebelled against him, and declared these things abroad, and had not compassion;
Moses 5:54     Wherefore Lamech was despised, and cast out, and came not among the sons of men, lest he should die.
Moses 5:55     And thus the works of darkness began to prevail among all the sons of men.
Moses 5:56     And God cursed the earth with a sore curse, and was angry with the wicked, with all the sons of men whom he had made;
Moses 5:57     For they would not hearken unto his voice, nor believe on his Only Begotten Son, even him whom he declared should come in the meridian of time, who was prepared from before the foundation of the world.
Moses 5:58     And thus the Gospel began to be preached, from the beginning, being declared by holy angels sent forth from the presence of God, and by his own voice, and by the gift of the Holy Ghost.
Moses 5:59     And thus all things were confirmed unto Adam, by an holy ordinance, and the Gospel preached, and a decree sent forth, that it should be in the world, until the end thereof; and thus it was. Amen.
Moses 6:1     And Adam hearkened unto the voice of God, and called upon his sons to repent.
Moses 6:2     And Adam knew his wife again, and she bare a son, and he called his name Seth. And Adam glorified the name of God; for he said: God hath appointed me another seed, instead of Abel, whom Cain slew.
Moses 6:3     And God revealed himself unto Seth, and he rebelled not, but offered an acceptable sacrifice, like unto his brother Abel. And to him also was born a son, and he called his name Enos.
Moses 6:4     And then began these men to call upon the name of the Lord, and the Lord blessed them;
Moses 6:5     And a book of remembrance was kept, in the which was recorded, in the language of Adam, for it was given unto as many as called upon God to write by the spirit of inspiration;
Moses 6:6     And by them their children were taught to read and write, having a language which was pure and undefiled.
Moses 6:7     Now this same Priesthood, which was in the beginning, shall be in the end of the world also.
Moses 6:8     Now this prophecy Adam spake, as he was moved upon by the Holy Ghost, and a genealogy was kept of the children of God. And this was the book of the generations of Adam, saying: In the day that God created man, in the likeness of God made he him;
Moses 6:9     In the image of his own body, male and female, created he them, and blessed them, and called their name Adam, in the day when they were created and became living souls in the land upon the footstool of God.
Moses 6:10     And Adam lived one hundred and thirty years, and begat a son in his own likeness, after his own image, and called his name Seth.
Moses 6:11     And the days of Adam, after he had begotten Seth, were eight hundred years, and he begat many sons and daughters;
Moses 6:12     And all the days that Adam lived were nine hundred and thirty years, and he died.
Moses 6:13     Seth lived one hundred and five years, and begat Enos, and prophesied in all his days, and taught his son Enos in the ways of God; wherefore Enos prophesied also.
Moses 6:14     And Seth lived, after he begat Enos, eight hundred and seven years, and begat many sons and daughters.
Moses 6:15     And the children of men were numerous upon all the face of the land. And in those days Satan had great dominion among men, and raged in their hearts; and from thenceforth came wars and bloodshed; and a man's hand was against his own brother, in administering death, because of secret works, seeking for power.
Moses 6:16     All the days of Seth were nine hundred and twelve years, and he died.
Moses 6:17     And Enos lived ninety years, and begat Cainan. And Enos and the residue of the people of God came out from the land, which was called Shulon, and dwelt in a land of promise, which he called after his own son, whom he had named Cainan.
Moses 6:18     And Enos lived, after he begat Cainan, eight hundred and fifteen years, and begat many sons and daughters. And all the days of Enos were nine hundred and five years, and he died.
Moses 6:19     And Cainan lived seventy years, and begat Mahalaleel; and Cainan lived after he begat Mahalaleel eight hundred and forty years, and begat sons and daughters. And all the days of Cainan were nine hundred and ten years, and he died.
Moses 6:20     And Mahalaleel lived sixty-five years, and begat Jared; and Mahalaleel lived, after he begat Jared, eight hundred and thirty years, and begat sons and daughters. And all the days of Mahalaleel were eight hundred and ninety-five years, and he died.
Moses 6:21     And Jared lived one hundred and sixty-two years, and begat Enoch; and Jared lived, after he begat Enoch, eight hundred years, and begat sons and daughters. And Jared taught Enoch in all the ways of God.
Moses 6:22     And this is the genealogy of the sons of Adam, who was the son of God, with whom God, himself, conversed.
Moses 6:23     And they were preachers of righteousness, and spake and prophesied, and called upon all men, everywhere, to repent; and faith was taught unto the children of men.
Moses 6:24     And it came to pass that all the days of Jared were nine hundred and sixty-two years, and he died.
Moses 6:25     And Enoch lived sixty-five years, and begat Methuselah.
Moses 6:26     And it came to pass that Enoch journeyed in the land, among the people; and as he journeyed, the Spirit of God descended out of heaven, and abode upon him.
Moses 6:27     And he heard a voice from heaven, saying: Enoch, my son, prophesy unto this people, and say unto them--Repent, for thus saith the Lord: I am angry with this people, and my fierce anger is kindled against them; for their hearts have waxed hard, and their ears are dull of hearing, and their eyes cannot see afar off;
Moses 6:28     And for these many generations, ever since the day that I created them, have they gone astray, and have denied me, and have sought their own counsels in the dark; and in their own abominations have they devised murder, and have not kept the commandments, which I gave unto their father, Adam.
Moses 6:29     Wherefore, they have foresworn themselves, and, by their oaths, they have brought upon themselves death; and a hell I have prepared for them, if they repent not;
Moses 6:30     And this is a decree, which I have sent forth in the beginning of the world, from my own mouth, from the foundation thereof, and by the mouths of my servants, thy fathers, have I decreed it, even as it shall be sent forth in the world, unto the ends thereof.
Moses 6:31     And when Enoch had heard these words, he bowed himself to the earth, before the Lord, and spake before the Lord, saying: Why is it that I have found favor in thy sight, and am but a lad, and all the people hate me; for I am slow of speech; wherefore am I thy servant?
Moses 6:32     And the Lord said unto Enoch: Go forth and do as I have commanded thee, and no man shall pierce thee. Open thy mouth, and it shall be filled, and I will give thee utterance, for all flesh is in my hands, and I will do as seemeth me good.
Moses 6:33     Say unto this people: Choose ye this day, to serve the Lord God who made you.
Moses 6:34     Behold my Spirit is upon you, wherefore all thy words will I justify; and the mountains shall flee before you, and the rivers shall turn from their course; and thou shalt abide in me, and I in you; therefore walk with me.
Moses 6:35     And the Lord spake unto Enoch, and said unto him: Anoint thine eyes with clay, and wash them, and thou shalt see. And he did so.
Moses 6:36     And he beheld the spirits that God had created; and he beheld also things which were not visible to the natural eye; and from thenceforth came the saying abroad in the land: A seer hath the Lord raised up unto his people.
Moses 6:37     And it came to pass that Enoch went forth in the land, among the people, standing upon the hills and the high places, and cried with a loud voice, testifying against their works; and all men were offended because of him.
Moses 6:38     And they came forth to hear him, upon the high places, saying unto the tent-keepers: Tarry ye here and keep the tents, while we go yonder to behold the seer, for he prophesieth, and there is a strange thing in the land; a wild man hath come among us.
Moses 6:39     And it came to pass when they heard him, no man laid hands on him; for fear came on all them that heard him; for he walked with God.
Moses 6:40     And there came a man unto him, whose name was Mahijah, and said unto him: Tell us plainly who thou art, and from whence thou comest?
Moses 6:41     And he said unto them: I came out from the land of Cainan, the land of my fathers, a land of righteousness unto this day. And my father taught me in all the ways of God.
Moses 6:42     And it came to pass, as I journeyed from the land of Cainan, by the sea east, I beheld a vision; and lo, the heavens I saw, and the Lord spake with me, and gave me commandment; wherefore, for this cause, to keep the commandment, I speak forth these words.
Moses 6:43     And Enoch continued his speech, saying: The Lord which spake with me, the same is the God of heaven, and he is my God, and your God, and ye are my brethren, and why counsel ye yourselves, and deny the God of heaven?
Moses 6:44     The heavens he made; the earth is his footstool; and the foundation thereof is his. Behold, he laid it, an host of men hath he brought in upon the face thereof.
Moses 6:45     And death hath come upon our fathers; nevertheless we know them, and cannot deny, and even the first of all we know, even Adam.
Moses 6:46     For a book of remembrance we have written among us, according to the pattern given by the finger of God; and it is given in our own language.
Moses 6:47     And as Enoch spake forth the words of God, the people trembled, and could not stand in his presence.
Moses 6:48     And he said unto them: Because that Adam fell, we are; and by his fall came death; and we are made partakers of misery and woe.
Moses 6:49     Behold Satan hath come among the children of men, and tempteth them to worship him; and men have become carnal, sensual, and devilish, and are shut out from the presence of God.
Moses 6:50     But God hath made known unto our fathers that all men must repent.
Moses 6:51     And he called upon our father Adam by his own voice, saying: I am God; I made the world, and men before they were in the flesh.
Moses 6:52     And he also said unto him: If thou wilt turn unto me, and hearken unto my voice, and believe, and repent of all thy transgressions, and be baptized, even in water, in the name of mine Only Begotten Son, who is full of grace and truth, which is Jesus Christ, the only name which shall be given under heaven, whereby salvation shall come unto the children of men, ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, asking all things in his name, and whatsoever ye shall ask, it shall be given you.
Moses 6:53     And our father Adam spake unto the Lord, and said: Why is it that men must repent and be baptized in water? And the Lord said unto Adam: Behold I have forgiven thee thy transgression in the Garden of Eden.
Moses 6:54     Hence came the saying abroad among the people, that the Son of God hath atoned for original guilt, wherein the sins of the parents cannot be answered upon the heads of the children, for they are whole from the foundation of the world.
Moses 6:55     And the Lord spake unto Adam, saying: Inasmuch as thy children are conceived in sin, even so when they begin to grow up, sin conceiveth in their hearts, and they taste the bitter, that they may know to prize the good.
Moses 6:56     And it is given unto them to know good from evil; wherefore they are agents unto themselves, and I have given unto you another law and commandment.
Moses 6:57     Wherefore teach it unto your children, that all men, everywhere, must repent, or they can in nowise inherit the kingdom of God, for no unclean thing can dwell there, or dwell in his presence; for, in the language of Adam, Man of Holiness is his name, and the name of his Only Begotten is the Son of Man, even Jesus Christ, a righteous Judge, who shall come in the meridian of time.
Moses 6:58     Therefore I give unto you a commandment, to teach these things freely unto your children, saying:
Moses 6:59     That by reason of transgression cometh the fall, which fall bringeth death, and inasmuch as ye were born into the world by water, and blood, and the spirit, which I have made, and so became of dust a living soul, even so ye must be born again into the kingdom of heaven, of water, and of the Spirit, and be cleansed by blood, even the blood of mine Only Begotten; that ye might be sanctified from all sin, and enjoy the words of eternal life in this world, and eternal life in the world to come, even immortal glory;
Moses 6:60     For by the water ye keep the commandment; by the Spirit ye are justified, and by the blood ye are sanctified;
Moses 6:61     Therefore it is given to abide in you; the record of heaven; the Comforter; the peaceable things of immortal glory; the truth of all things; that which quickeneth all things, which maketh alive all things; that which knoweth all things, and hath all power according to wisdom, mercy, truth, justice, and judgment.
Moses 6:62     And now, behold, I say unto you: This is the plan of salvation unto all men, through the blood of mine Only Begotten, who shall come in the meridian of time.
Moses 6:63     And behold, all things have their likeness, and all things are created and made to bear record of me, both things which are temporal, and things which are spiritual; things which are in the heavens above, and things which are on the earth, and things which are in the earth, and things which are under the earth, both above and beneath: all things bear record of me.
Moses 6:64     And it came to pass, when the Lord had spoken with Adam, our father, that Adam cried unto the Lord, and he was caught away by the Spirit of the Lord, and was carried down into the water, and was laid under the water, and was brought forth out of the water.
Moses 6:65     And thus he was baptized, and the Spirit of God descended upon him, and thus he was born of the Spirit, and became quickened in the inner man.
Moses 6:66     And he heard a voice out of heaven, saying: Thou art baptized with fire, and with the Holy Ghost. This is the record of the Father, and the Son, from henceforth and forever;
Moses 6:67     And thou art after the order of him who was without beginning of days or end of years, from all eternity to all eternity.
Moses 6:68     Behold, thou art one in me, a son of God; and thus may all become my sons. Amen.
Moses 7:1     And it came to pass that Enoch continued his speech, saying: Behold, our father Adam taught these things, and many have believed and become the sons of God, and many have believed not, and have perished in their sins, and are looking forth with fear, in torment, for the fiery indignation of the wrath of God to be poured out upon them.
Moses 7:2     And from that time forth Enoch began to prophesy, saying unto the people, that: As I was journeying, and stood upon the place Mahujah, and cried unto the Lord, there came a voice out of heaven, saying--Turn ye, and get ye upon the mount Simeon.
Moses 7:3     And it came to pass that I turned and went up on the mount; and as I stood upon the mount, I beheld the heavens open, and I was clothed upon with glory;
Moses 7:4     And I saw the Lord; and he stood before my face, and he talked with me, even as a man talketh one with another, face to face; and he said unto me: Look, and I will show unto thee the world for the space of many generations.
Moses 7:5     And it came to pass that I beheld in the valley of Shum, and lo, a great people which dwelt in tents, which were the people of Shum.
Moses 7:6     And again the Lord said unto me: Look; and I looked towards the north, and I beheld the people of Canaan, which dwelt in tents.
Moses 7:7     And the Lord said unto me: Prophesy; and I prophesied, saying: Behold the people of Canaan, which are numerous, shall go forth in battle array against the people of Shum, and shall slay them that they shall utterly be destroyed; and the people of Canaan shall divide themselves in the land, and the land shall be barren and unfruitful, and none other people shall dwell there but the people of Canaan;
Moses 7:8     For behold, the Lord shall curse the land with much heat, and the barrenness thereof shall go forth forever; and there was a blackness came upon all the children of Canaan, that they were despised among all people.
Moses 7:9     And it came to pass that the Lord said unto me: Look; and I looked, and I beheld the land of Sharon, and the land of Enoch, and the land of Omner, and the land of Heni, and the land of Shem, and the land of Haner, and the land of Hanannihah, and all the inhabitants thereof;
Moses 7:10     And the Lord said unto me: Go to this people, and say unto them--Repent, lest I come out and smite them with a curse, and they die.
Moses 7:11     And he gave unto me a commandment that I should baptize in the name of the Father, and of the Son, which is full of grace and truth, and of the Holy Ghost, which beareth record of the Father and the Son.
Moses 7:12     And it came to pass that Enoch continued to call upon all the people, save it were the people of Canaan, to repent;
Moses 7:13     And so great was the faith of Enoch that he led the people of God, and their enemies came to battle against them; and he spake the word of the Lord, and the earth trembled, and the mountains fled, even according to his command; and the rivers of water were turned out of their course; and the roar of the lions was heard out of the wilderness; and all nations feared greatly, so powerful was the word of Enoch, and so great was the power of the language which God had given him.
Moses 7:14     There also came up a land out of the depth of the sea, and so great was the fear of the enemies of the people of God, that they fled and stood afar off and went upon the land which came up out of the depth of the sea.
Moses 7:15     And the giants of the land, also, stood afar off; and there went forth a curse upon all people that fought against God;
Moses 7:16     And from that time forth there were wars and bloodshed among them; but the Lord came and dwelt with his people, and they dwelt in righteousness.
Moses 7:17     The fear of the Lord was upon all nations, so great was the glory of the Lord, which was upon his people. And the Lord blessed the land, and they were blessed upon the mountains, and upon the high places, and did flourish.
Moses 7:18     And the Lord called his people Zion, because they were of one heart and one mind, and dwelt in righteousness; and there was no poor among them.
Moses 7:19     And Enoch continued his preaching in righteousness unto the people of God. And it came to pass in his days, that he built a city that was called the City of Holiness, even Zion.
Moses 7:20     And it came to pass that Enoch talked with the Lord; and he said unto the Lord: Surely Zion shall dwell in safety forever. But the Lord said unto Enoch: Zion have I blessed, but the residue of the people have I cursed.
Moses 7:21     And it came to pass that the Lord showed unto Enoch all the inhabitants of the earth; and he beheld, and lo, Zion, in process of time, was taken up into heaven. And the Lord said unto Enoch: Behold mine abode forever.
Moses 7:22     And Enoch also beheld the residue of the people which were the sons of Adam; and they were a mixture of all the seed of Adam save it was the seed of Cain, for the seed of Cain were black, and had not place among them.
Moses 7:23     And after that Zion was taken up into heaven, Enoch beheld, and lo, all the nations of the earth were before him;
Moses 7:24     And there came generation upon generation; and Enoch was high and lifted up, even in the bosom of the Father, and of the Son of Man; and behold, the power of Satan was upon all the face of the earth.
Moses 7:25     And he saw angels descending out of heaven; and he heard a loud voice saying: Wo, wo be unto the inhabitants of the earth.
Moses 7:26     And he beheld Satan; and he had a great chain in his hand, and it veiled the whole face of the earth with darkness; and he looked up and laughed, and his angels rejoiced.
Moses 7:27     And Enoch beheld angels descending out of heaven, bearing testimony of the Father and Son; and the Holy Ghost fell on many, and they were caught up by the powers of heaven into Zion.
Moses 7:28     And it came to pass that the God of heaven looked upon the residue of the people, and he wept; and Enoch bore record of it, saying: How is it that the heavens weep, and shed forth their tears as the rain upon the mountains?
Moses 7:29     And Enoch said unto the Lord: How is it that thou canst weep, seeing thou art holy, and from all eternity to all eternity?
Moses 7:30     And were it possible that man could number the particles of the earth, yea, millions of earths like this, it would not be a beginning to the number of thy creations; and thy curtains are stretched out still; and yet thou art there, and thy bosom is there; and also thou art just; thou art merciful and kind forever;
Moses 7:31     And thou hast taken Zion to thine own bosom, from all thy creations, from all eternity to all eternity; and naught but peace, justice, and truth is the habitation of thy throne; and mercy shall go before thy face and have no end; how is it thou canst weep?
Moses 7:32     The Lord said unto Enoch: Behold these thy brethren; they are the workmanship of mine own hands, and I gave unto them their knowledge, in the day I created them; and in the Garden of Eden, gave I unto man his agency;
Moses 7:33     And unto thy brethren have I said, and also given commandment, that they should love one another, and that they should choose me, their Father; but behold, they are without affection, and they hate their own blood;
Moses 7:34     And the fire of mine indignation is kindled against them; and in my hot displeasure will I send in the floods upon them, for my fierce anger is kindled against them.
Moses 7:35     Behold, I am God; Man of Holiness is my name; Man of Counsel is my name; and Endless and Eternal is my name, also.
Moses 7:36     Wherefore, I can stretch forth mine hands and hold all the creations which I have made; and mine eye can pierce them also, and among all the workmanship of mine hands there has not been so great wickedness as among thy brethren.
Moses 7:37     But behold, their sins shall be upon the heads of their fathers; Satan shall be their father, and misery shall be their doom; and the whole heavens shall weep over them, even all the workmanship of mine hands; wherefore should not the heavens weep, seeing these shall suffer?
Moses 7:38     But behold, these which thine eyes are upon shall perish in the floods; and behold, I will shut them up; a prison have I prepared for them.
Moses 7:39     And that which I have chosen hath pled before my face. Wherefore, he suffereth for their sins; inasmuch as they will repent in the day that my Chosen shall return unto me, and until that day they shall be in torment;
Moses 7:40     Wherefore, for this shall the heavens weep, yea, and all the workmanship of mine hands.
Moses 7:41     And it came to pass that the Lord spake unto Enoch, and told Enoch all the doings of the children of men; wherefore Enoch knew, and looked upon their wickedness, and their misery, and wept and stretched forth his arms, and his heart swelled wide as eternity; and his bowels yearned; and all eternity shook.
Moses 7:42     And Enoch also saw Noah, and his family; that the posterity of all the sons of Noah should be saved with a temporal salvation;
Moses 7:43     Wherefore Enoch saw that Noah built an ark; and that the Lord smiled upon it, and held it in his own hand; but upon the residue of the wicked the floods came and swallowed them up.
Moses 7:44     And as Enoch saw this, he had bitterness of soul, and wept over his brethren, and said unto the heavens: I will refuse to be comforted; but the Lord said unto Enoch: Lift up your heart, and be glad; and look.
Moses 7:45     And it came to pass that Enoch looked; and from Noah, he beheld all the families of the earth; and he cried unto the Lord, saying: When shall the day of the Lord come? When shall the blood of the Righteous be shed, that all they that mourn may be sanctified and have eternal life?
Moses 7:46     And the Lord said: It shall be in the meridian of time, in the days of wickedness and vengeance.
Moses 7:47     And behold, Enoch saw the day of the coming of the Son of Man, even in the flesh; and his soul rejoiced, saying: The Righteous is lifted up, and the Lamb is slain from the foundation of the world; and through faith I am in the bosom of the Father, and behold, Zion is with me.
Moses 7:48     And it came to pass that Enoch looked upon the earth; and he heard a voice from the bowels thereof, saying: Wo, wo is me, the mother of men; I am pained, I am weary, because of the wickedness of my children. When shall I rest, and be cleansed from the filthiness which is gone forth out of me? When will my Creator sanctify me, that I may rest, and righteousness for a season abide upon my face?
Moses 7:49     And when Enoch heard the earth mourn, he wept, and cried unto the Lord, saying: O Lord, wilt thou not have compassion upon the earth? Wilt thou not bless the children of Noah?
Moses 7:50     And it came to pass that Enoch continued his cry unto the Lord, saying: I ask thee, O Lord, in the name of thine Only Begotten, even Jesus Christ, that thou wilt have mercy upon Noah and his seed, that the earth might never more be covered by the floods.
Moses 7:51     And the Lord could not withhold; and he covenanted with Enoch, and sware unto him with an oath, that he would stay the floods; that he would call upon the children of Noah;
Moses 7:52     And he sent forth an unalterable decree, that a remnant of his seed should always be found among all nations, while the earth should stand;
Moses 7:53     And the Lord said: Blessed is he through whose seed Messiah shall come; for he saith--I am Messiah, the King of Zion, the Rock of Heaven, which is broad as eternity; whoso cometh in at the gate and climbeth up by me shall never fall; wherefore, blessed are they of whom I have spoken, for they shall come forth with songs of everlasting joy.
Moses 7:54     And it came to pass that Enoch cried unto the Lord, saying: When the Son of Man cometh in the flesh, shall the earth rest? I pray thee, show me these things.
Moses 7:55     And the Lord said unto Enoch: Look, and he looked and beheld the Son of Man lifted up on the cross, after the manner of men;
Moses 7:56     And he heard a loud voice; and the heavens were veiled; and all the creations of God mourned; and the earth groaned; and the rocks were rent; and the saints arose, and were crowned at the right hand of the Son of Man, with crowns of glory;
Moses 7:57     And as many of the spirits as were in prison came forth, and stood on the right hand of God; and the remainder were reserved in chains of darkness until the judgment of the great day.
Moses 7:58     And again Enoch wept and cried unto the Lord, saying: When shall the earth rest?
Moses 7:59     And Enoch beheld the Son of Man ascend up unto the Father; and he called unto the Lord, saying: Wilt thou not come again upon the earth? Forasmuch as thou art God, and I know thee, and thou hast sworn unto me, and commanded me that I should ask in the name of thine Only Begotten; thou hast made me, and given unto me a right to thy throne, and not of myself, but through thine own grace; wherefore, I ask thee if thou wilt not come again on the earth.
Moses 7:60     And the Lord said unto Enoch: As I live, even so will I come in the last days, in the days of wickedness and vengeance, to fulfil the oath which I have made unto you concerning the children of Noah;
Moses 7:61     And the day shall come that the earth shall rest, but before that day the heavens shall be darkened, and a veil of darkness shall cover the earth; and the heavens shall shake, and also the earth; and great tribulations shall be among the children of men, but my people will I preserve;
Moses 7:62     And righteousness will I send down out of heaven; and truth will I send forth out of the earth, to bear testimony of mine Only Begotten; his resurrection from the dead; yea, and also the resurrection of all men; and righteousness and truth will I cause to sweep the earth as with a flood, to gather out mine elect from the four quarters of the earth, unto a place which I shall prepare, an Holy City, that my people may gird up their loins, and be looking forth for the time of my coming; for there shall be my tabernacle, and it shall be called Zion, a New Jerusalem.
Moses 7:63     And the Lord said unto Enoch: Then shalt thou and all thy city meet them there, and we will receive them into our bosom, and they shall see us; and we will fall upon their necks, and they shall fall upon our necks, and we will kiss each other;
Moses 7:64     And there shall be mine abode, and it shall be Zion, which shall come forth out of all the creations which I have made; and for the space of a thousand years the earth shall rest.
Moses 7:65     And it came to pass that Enoch saw the day of the coming of the Son of Man, in the last days, to dwell on the earth in righteousness for the space of a thousand years;
Moses 7:66     But before that day he saw great tribulations among the wicked; and he also saw the sea, that it was troubled, and men's hearts failing them, looking forth with fear for the judgments of the Almighty God, which should come upon the wicked.
Moses 7:67     And the Lord showed Enoch all things, even unto the end of the world; and he saw the day of the righteous, the hour of their redemption, and received a fulness of joy;
Moses 7:68     And all the days of Zion, in the days of Enoch, were three hundred and sixty-five years.
Moses 7:69     And Enoch and all his people walked with God, and he dwelt in the midst of Zion; and it came to pass that Zion was not, for God received it up into his own bosom; and from thence went forth the saying, Zion is Fled.
Moses 8:1     And all the days of Enoch were four hundred and thirty years.
Moses 8:2     And it came to pass that Methuselah, the son of Enoch, was not taken, that the covenants of the Lord might be fulfilled, which he made to Enoch; for he truly covenanted with Enoch that Noah should be of the fruit of his loins.
Moses 8:3     And it came to pass that Methuselah prophesied that from his loins should spring all the kingdoms of the earth (through Noah), and he took glory unto himself.
Moses 8:4     And there came forth a great famine into the land, and the Lord cursed the earth with a sore curse, and many of the inhabitants thereof died.
Moses 8:5     And it came to pass that Methuselah lived one hundred and eighty-seven years, and begat Lamech;
Moses 8:6     And Methuselah lived, after he begat Lamech, seven hundred and eighty-two years, and begat sons and daughters;
Moses 8:7     And all the days of Methuselah were nine hundred and sixty-nine years, and he died.
Moses 8:8     And Lamech lived one hundred and eighty-two years, and begat a son,
Moses 8:9     And he called his name Noah, saying: This son shall comfort us concerning our work and toil of our hands, because of the ground which the Lord hath cursed.
Moses 8:10     And Lamech lived, after he begat Noah, five hundred and ninety-five years, and begat sons and daughters;
Moses 8:11     And all the days of Lamech were seven hundred and seventy-seven years, and he died.
Moses 8:12     And Noah was four hundred and fifty years old, and begat Japheth; and forty-two years afterward he begat Shem of her who was the mother of Japheth, and when he was five hundred years old he begat Ham.
Moses 8:13     And Noah and his sons hearkened unto the Lord, and gave heed, and they were called the sons of God.
Moses 8:14     And when these men began to multiply on the face of the earth, and daughters were born unto them, the sons of men saw that those daughters were fair, and they took them wives, even as they chose.
Moses 8:15     And the Lord said unto Noah: The daughters of thy sons have sold themselves; for behold mine anger is kindled against the sons of men, for they will not hearken to my voice.
Moses 8:16     And it came to pass that Noah prophesied, and taught the things of God, even as it was in the beginning.
Moses 8:17     And the Lord said unto Noah: My Spirit shall not always strive with man, for he shall know that all flesh shall die; yet his days shall be an hundred and twenty years; and if men do not repent, I will send in the floods upon them.
Moses 8:18     And in those days there were giants on the earth, and they sought Noah to take away his life; but the Lord was with Noah, and the power of the Lord was upon him.
Moses 8:19     And the Lord ordained Noah after his own order, and commanded him that he should go forth and declare his Gospel unto the children of men, even as it was given unto Enoch.
Moses 8:20     And it came to pass that Noah called upon the children of men that they should repent; but they hearkened not unto his words;
Moses 8:21     And also, after that they had heard him, they came up before him, saying: Behold, we are the sons of God; have we not taken unto ourselves the daughters of men? And are we not eating and drinking, and marrying and giving in marriage? And our wives bear unto us children, and the same are mighty men, which are like unto men of old, men of great renown. And they hearkened not unto the words of Noah.
Moses 8:22     And God saw that the wickedness of men had become great in the earth; and every man was lifted up in the imagination of the thoughts of his heart, being only evil continually.
Moses 8:23     And it came to pass that Noah continued his preaching unto the people, saying: Hearken, and give heed unto my words;
Moses 8:24     Believe and repent of your sins and be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, even as our fathers, and ye shall receive the Holy Ghost, that ye may have all things made manifest; and if ye do not this, the floods will come in upon you; nevertheless they hearkened not.
Moses 8:25     And it repented Noah, and his heart was pained that the Lord had made man on the earth, and it grieved him at the heart.
Moses 8:26     And the Lord said: I will destroy man whom I have created, from the face of the earth, both man and beast, and the creeping things, and the fowls of the air; for it repenteth Noah that I have created them, and that I have made them; and he hath called upon me; for they have sought his life.
Moses 8:27     And thus Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord; for Noah was a just man, and perfect in his generation; and he walked with God, as did also his three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.
Moses 8:28     The earth was corrupt before God, and it was filled with violence.
Moses 8:29     And God looked upon the earth, and, behold, it was corrupt, for all flesh had corrupted its way upon the earth.
Moses 8:30     And God said unto Noah: The end of all flesh is come before me, for the earth is filled with violence, and behold I will destroy all flesh from off the earth.
Abraham 1:1     In the land of the Chaldeans, at the residence of my fathers, I, Abraham, saw that it was needful for me to obtain another place of residence;
Abraham 1:2     And, finding there was greater happiness and peace and rest for me, I sought for the blessings of the fathers, and the right whereunto I should be ordained to administer the same; having been myself a follower of righteousness, desiring also to be one who possessed great knowledge, and to be a greater follower of righteousness, and to possess a greater knowledge, and to be a father of many nations, a prince of peace, and desiring to receive instructions, and to keep the commandments of God, I became a rightful heir, a High Priest, holding the right belonging to the fathers.
Abraham 1:3     It was conferred upon me from the fathers; it came down from the fathers, from the beginning of time, yea, even from the beginning, or before the foundation of the earth, down to the present time, even the right of the firstborn, or the first man, who is Adam, or first father, through the fathers unto me.
Abraham 1:4     I sought for mine appointment unto the Priesthood according to the appointment of God unto the fathers concerning the seed.
Abraham 1:5     My fathers, having turned from their righteousness, and from the holy commandments which the Lord their God had given unto them, unto the worshiping of the gods of the heathen, utterly refused to hearken to my voice;
Abraham 1:6     For their hearts were set to do evil, and were wholly turned to the god of Elkenah, and the god of Libnah, and the god of Mahmackrah, and the god of Korash, and the god of Pharaoh, king of Egypt;
Abraham 1:7     Therefore they turned their hearts to the sacrifice of the heathen in offering up their children unto these dumb idols, and hearkened not unto my voice, but endeavored to take away my life by the hand of the priest of Elkenah. The priest of Elkenah was also the priest of Pharaoh.
Abraham 1:8     Now, at this time it was the custom of the priest of Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, to offer up upon the altar which was built in the land of Chaldea, for the offering unto these strange gods, men, women, and children.
Abraham 1:9     And it came to pass that the priest made an offering unto the god of Pharaoh, and also unto the god of Shagreel, even after the manner of the Egyptians. Now the god of Shagreel was the sun.
Abraham 1:10     Even the thank-offering of a child did the priest of Pharaoh offer upon the altar which stood by the hill called Potiphar's Hill, at the head of the plain of Olishem.
Abraham 1:11     Now, this priest had offered upon this altar three virgins at one time, who were the daughters of Onitah, one of the royal descent directly from the loins of Ham. These virgins were offered up because of their virtue; they would not bow down to worship gods of wood or of stone, therefore they were killed upon this altar, and it was done after the manner of the Egyptians.
Abraham 1:12     And it came to pass that the priests laid violence upon me, that they might slay me also, as they did those virgins upon this altar; and that you may have a knowledge of this altar, I will refer you to the representation at the commencement of this record.
Abraham 1:13     It was made after the form of a bedstead, such as was had among the Chaldeans, and it stood before the gods of Elkenah, Libnah, Mahmackrah, Korash, and also a god like unto that of Pharaoh, king of Egypt.
Abraham 1:14     That you may have an understanding of these gods, I have given you the fashion of them in the figures at the beginning, which manner of figures is called by the Chaldeans Rahleenos, which signifies hieroglyphics.
Abraham 1:15     And as they lifted up their hands upon me, that they might offer me up and take away my life, behold, I lifted up my voice unto the Lord my God, and the Lord hearkened and heard, and he filled me with the vision of the Almighty, and the angel of his presence stood by me, and immediately unloosed my bands;
Abraham 1:16     And his voice was unto me: Abraham, Abraham, behold, my name is Jehovah, and I have heard thee, and have come down to deliver thee, and to take thee away from thy father's house, and from all thy kinsfolk, into a strange land which thou knowest not of;
Abraham 1:17     And this because they have turned their hearts away from me, to worship the god of Elkenah, and the god of Libnah, and the god of Mahmackrah, and the god of Korash, and the god of Pharaoh, king of Egypt; therefore I have come down to visit them, and to destroy him who hath lifted up his hand against thee, Abraham, my son, to take away thy life.
Abraham 1:18     Behold, I will lead thee by my hand, and I will take thee, to put upon thee my name, even the Priesthood of thy father, and my power shall be over thee.
Abraham 1:19     As it was with Noah so shall it be with thee; but through thy ministry my name shall be known in the earth forever, for I am thy God.
Abraham 1:20     Behold, Potiphar's Hill was in the land of Ur, of Chaldea. And the Lord broke down the altar of Elkenah, and of the gods of the land, and utterly destroyed them, and smote the priest that he died; and there was great mourning in Chaldea, and also in the court of Pharaoh; which Pharaoh signifies king by royal blood.
Abraham 1:21     Now this king of Egypt was a descendant from the loins of Ham, and was a partaker of the blood of the Canaanites by birth.
Abraham 1:22     From this descent sprang all the Egyptians, and thus the blood of the Canaanites was preserved in the land.
Abraham 1:23     The land of Egypt being first discovered by a woman, who was the daughter of Ham, and the daughter of Egyptus, which in the Chaldean signifies Egypt, which signifies that which is forbidden;
Abraham 1:24     When this woman discovered the land it was under water, who afterward settled her sons in it; and thus, from Ham, sprang that race which preserved the curse in the land.
Abraham 1:25     Now the first government of Egypt was established by Pharaoh, the eldest son of Egyptus, the daughter of Ham, and it was after the manner of the government of Ham, which was patriarchal.
Abraham 1:26     Pharaoh, being a righteous man, established his kingdom and judged his people wisely and justly all his days, seeking earnestly to imitate that order established by the fathers in the first generations, in the days of the first patriarchal reign, even in the reign of Adam, and also of Noah, his father, who blessed him with the blessings of the earth, and with the blessings of wisdom, but cursed him as pertaining to the Priesthood.
Abraham 1:27     Now, Pharaoh being of that lineage by which he could not have the right of Priesthood, notwithstanding the Pharaohs would fain claim it from Noah, through Ham, therefore my father was led away by their idolatry;
Abraham 1:28     But I shall endeavor, hereafter, to delineate the chronology running back from myself to the beginning of the creation, for the records have come into my hands, which I hold unto this present time.
Abraham 1:29     Now, after the priest of Elkenah was smitten that he died, there came a fulfilment of those things which were said unto me concerning the land of Chaldea, that there should be a famine in the land.
Abraham 1:30     Accordingly a famine prevailed throughout all the land of Chaldea, and my father was sorely tormented because of the famine, and he repented of the evil which he had determined against me, to take away my life.
Abraham 1:31     But the records of the fathers, even the patriarchs, concerning the right of Priesthood, the Lord my God preserved in mine own hands; therefore a knowledge of the beginning of the creation, and also of the planets, and of the stars, as they were made known unto the fathers, have I kept even unto this day, and I shall endeavor to write some of these things upon this record, for the benefit of my posterity that shall come after me.
Abraham 2:1     Now the Lord God caused the famine to wax sore in the land of Ur, insomuch that Haran, my brother, died; but Terah, my father, yet lived in the land of Ur, of the Chaldees.
Abraham 2:2     And it came to pass that I, Abraham, took Sarai to wife, and Nahor, my brother, took Milcah to wife, who was the daughter of Haran.
Abraham 2:3     Now the Lord had said unto me: Abraham, get thee out of thy country, and from thy kindred, and from thy father's house, unto a land that I will show thee.
Abraham 2:4     Therefore I left the land of Ur, of the Chaldees, to go into the land of Canaan; and I took Lot, my brother's son, and his wife, and Sarai my wife; and also my father followed after me, unto the land which we denominated Haran.
Abraham 2:5     And the famine abated; and my father tarried in Haran and dwelt there, as there were many flocks in Haran; and my father turned again unto his idolatry, therefore he continued in Haran.
Abraham 2:6     But I, Abraham, and Lot, my brother's son, prayed unto the Lord, and the Lord appeared unto me, and said unto me: Arise, and take Lot with thee; for I have purposed to take thee away out of Haran, and to make of thee a minister to bear my name in a strange land which I will give unto thy seed after thee for an everlasting possession, when they hearken to my voice.
Abraham 2:7     For I am the Lord thy God; I dwell in heaven; the earth is my footstool; I stretch my hand over the sea, and it obeys my voice; I cause the wind and the fire to be my chariot; I say to the mountains--Depart hence--and behold, they are taken away by a whirlwind, in an instant, suddenly.
Abraham 2:8     My name is Jehovah, and I know the end from the beginning; therefore my hand shall be over thee.
Abraham 2:9     And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee above measure, and make thy name great among all nations, and thou shalt be a blessing unto thy seed after thee, that in their hands they shall bear this ministry and Priesthood unto all nations;
Abraham 2:10     And I will bless them through thy name; for as many as receive this Gospel shall be called after thy name, and shall be accounted thy seed, and shall rise up and bless thee, as their father;
Abraham 2:11     And I will bless them that bless thee, and curse them that curse thee; and in thee (that is, in thy Priesthood) and in thy seed (that is, thy Priesthood), for I give unto thee a promise that this right shall continue in thee, and in thy seed after thee (that is to say, the literal seed, or the seed of the body) shall all the families of the earth be blessed, even with the blessings of the Gospel, which are the blessings of salvation, even of life eternal.
Abraham 2:12     Now, after the Lord had withdrawn from speaking to me, and withdrawn his face from me, I said in my heart: Thy servant has sought thee earnestly; now I have found thee;
Abraham 2:13     Thou didst send thine angel to deliver me from the gods of Elkenah, and I will do well to hearken unto thy voice, therefore let thy servant rise up and depart in peace.
Abraham 2:14     So I, Abraham, departed as the Lord had said unto me, and Lot with me; and I, Abraham, was sixty and two years old when I departed out of Haran.
Abraham 2:15     And I took Sarai, whom I took to wife when I was in Ur, in Chaldea, and Lot, my brother's son, and all our substance that we had gathered, and the souls that we had won in Haran, and came forth in the way to the land of Canaan, and dwelt in tents as we came on our way;
Abraham 2:16     Therefore, eternity was our covering and our rock and our salvation, as we journeyed from Haran by the way of Jershon, to come to the land of Canaan.
Abraham 2:17     Now I, Abraham, built an altar in the land of Jershon, and made an offering unto the Lord, and prayed that the famine might be turned away from my father's house, that they might not perish.
Abraham 2:18     And then we passed from Jershon through the land unto the place of Sechem; it was situated in the plains of Moreh, and we had already come into the borders of the land of the Canaanites, and I offered sacrifice there in the plains of Moreh, and called on the Lord devoutly, because we had already come into the land of this idolatrous nation.
Abraham 2:19     And the Lord appeared unto me in answer to my prayers, and said unto me: Unto thy seed will I give this land.
Abraham 2:20     And I, Abraham, arose from the place of the altar which I had built unto the Lord, and removed from thence unto a mountain on the east of Bethel, and pitched my tent there, Bethel on the west, and Hai on the east; and there I built another altar unto the Lord, and called again upon the name of the Lord.
Abraham 2:21     And I, Abraham, journeyed, going on still towards the south; and there was a continuation of a famine in the land; and I, Abraham, concluded to go down into Egypt, to sojourn there, for the famine became very grievous.
Abraham 2:22     And it came to pass when I was come near to enter into Egypt, the Lord said unto me: Behold, Sarai, thy wife, is a very fair woman to look upon;
Abraham 2:23     Therefore it shall come to pass, when the Egyptians shall see her, they will say--She is his wife; and they will kill you, but they will save her alive; therefore see that ye do on this wise:
Abraham 2:24     Let her say unto the Egyptians, she is thy sister, and thy soul shall live.
Abraham 2:25     And it came to pass that I, Abraham, told Sarai, my wife, all that the Lord had said unto me--Therefore say unto them, I pray thee, thou art my sister, that it may be well with me for thy sake, and my soul shall live because of thee.
Abraham 3:1     And I, Abraham, had the Urim and Thummim, which the Lord my God had given unto me, in Ur of the Chaldees;
Abraham 3:2     And I saw the stars, that they were very great, and that one of them was nearest unto the throne of God; and there were many great ones which were near unto it;
Abraham 3:3     And the Lord said unto me: These are the governing ones; and the name of the great one is Kolob, because it is near unto me, for I am the Lord thy God: I have set this one to govern all those which belong to the same order as that upon which thou standest.
Abraham 3:4     And the Lord said unto me, by the Urim and Thummim, that Kolob was after the manner of the Lord, according to its times and seasons in the revolutions thereof; that one revolution was a day unto the Lord, after his manner of reckoning, it being one thousand years according to the time appointed unto that whereon thou standest. This is the reckoning of the Lord's time, according to the reckoning of Kolob.
Abraham 3:5     And the Lord said unto me: The planet which is the lesser light, lesser than that which is to rule the day, even the night, is above or greater than that upon which thou standest in point of reckoning, for it moveth in order more slow; this is in order because it standeth above the earth upon which thou standest, therefore the reckoning of its time is not so many as to its number of days, and of months, and of years.
Abraham 3:6     And the Lord said unto me: Now, Abraham, these two facts exist, behold thine eyes see it; it is given unto thee to know the times of reckoning, and the set time, yea, the set time of the earth upon which thou standest, and the set time of the greater light which is set to rule the day, and the set time of the lesser light which is set to rule the night.
Abraham 3:7     Now the set time of the lesser light is a longer time as to its reckoning than the reckoning of the time of the earth upon which thou standest.
Abraham 3:8     And where these two facts exist, there shall be another fact above them, that is, there shall be another planet whose reckoning of time shall be longer still;
Abraham 3:9     And thus there shall be the reckoning of the time of one planet above another, until thou come nigh unto Kolob, which Kolob is after the reckoning of the Lord's time; which Kolob is set nigh unto the throne of God, to govern all those planets which belong to the same order as that upon which thou standest.
Abraham 3:10     And it is given unto thee to know the set time of all the stars that are set to give light, until thou come near unto the throne of God.
Abraham 3:11     Thus I, Abraham, talked with the Lord, face to face, as one man talketh with another; and he told me of the works which his hands had made;
Abraham 3:12     And he said unto me: My son, my son (and his hand was stretched out), behold I will show you all these. And he put his hand upon mine eyes, and I saw those things which his hands had made, which were many; and they multiplied before mine eyes, and I could not see the end thereof.
Abraham 3:13     And he said unto me: This is Shinehah, which is the sun. And he said unto me: Kokob, which is star. And he said unto me: Olea, which is the moon. And he said unto me: Kokaubeam, which signifies stars, or all the great lights, which were in the firmament of heaven.
Abraham 3:14     And it was in the night time when the Lord spake these words unto me: I will multiply thee, and thy seed after thee, like unto these; and if thou canst count the number of sands, so shall be the number of thy seeds.
Abraham 3:15     And the Lord said unto me: Abraham, I show these things unto thee before ye go into Egypt, that ye may declare all these words.
Abraham 3:16     If two things exist, and there be one above the other, there shall be greater things above them; therefore Kolob is the greatest of all the Kokaubeam that thou hast seen, because it is nearest unto me.
Abraham 3:17     Now, if there be two things, one above the other, and the moon be above the earth, then it may be that a planet or a star may exist above it; and there is nothing that the Lord thy God shall take in his heart to do but what he will do it.
Abraham 3:18     Howbeit that he made the greater star; as, also, if there be two spirits, and one shall be more intelligent than the other, yet these two spirits, notwithstanding one is more intelligent than the other, have no beginning; they existed before, they shall have no end, they shall exist after, for they are gnolaum, or eternal.
Abraham 3:19     And the Lord said unto me: These two facts do exist, that there are two spirits, one being more intelligent than the other; there shall be another more intelligent than they; I am the Lord thy God, I am more intelligent than they all.
Abraham 3:20     The Lord thy God sent his angel to deliver thee from the hands of the priest of Elkenah.
Abraham 3:21     I dwell in the midst of them all; I now, therefore, have come down unto thee to declare unto thee the works which my hands have made, wherein my wisdom excelleth them all, for I rule in the heavens above, and in the earth beneath, in all wisdom and prudence, over all the intelligences thine eyes have seen from the beginning; I came down in the beginning in the midst of all the intelligences thou hast seen.
Abraham 3:22     Now the Lord had shown unto me, Abraham, the intelligences that were organized before the world was; and among all these there were many of the noble and great ones;
Abraham 3:23     And God saw these souls that they were good, and he stood in the midst of them, and he said: These I will make my rulers; for he stood among those that were spirits, and he saw that they were good; and he said unto me: Abraham, thou art one of them; thou wast chosen before thou wast born.
Abraham 3:24     And there stood one among them that was like unto God, and he said unto those who were with him: We will go down, for there is space there, and we will take of these materials, and we will make an earth whereon these may dwell;
Abraham 3:25     And we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them;
Abraham 3:26     And they who keep their first estate shall be added upon; and they who keep not their first estate shall not have glory in the same kingdom with those who keep their first estate; and they who keep their second estate shall have glory added upon their heads for ever and ever.
Abraham 3:27     And the Lord said: Whom shall I send? And one answered like unto the Son of Man: Here am I, send me. And another answered and said: Here am I, send me. And the Lord said: I will send the first.
Abraham 3:28     And the second was angry, and kept not his first estate; and, at that day, many followed after him.
Abraham 4:1     And then the Lord said: Let us go down. And they went down at the beginning, and they, that is the Gods, organized and formed the heavens and the earth.
Abraham 4:2     And the earth, after it was formed, was empty and desolate, because they had not formed anything but the earth; and darkness reigned upon the face of the deep, and the Spirit of the Gods was brooding upon the face of the waters.
Abraham 4:3     And they (the Gods) said: Let there be light; and there was light.
Abraham 4:4     And they (the Gods) comprehended the light, for it was bright; and they divided the light, or caused it to be divided, from the darkness.
Abraham 4:5     And the Gods called the light Day, and the darkness they called Night. And it came to pass that from the evening until morning they called night; and from the morning until the evening they called day; and this was the first, or the beginning, of that which they called day and night.
Abraham 4:6     And the Gods also said: Let there be an expanse in the midst of the waters, and it shall divide the waters from the waters.
Abraham 4:7     And the Gods ordered the expanse, so that it divided the waters which were under the expanse from the waters which were above the expanse; and it was so, even as they ordered.
Abraham 4:8     And the Gods called the expanse, Heaven. And it came to pass that it was from evening until morning that they called night; and it came to pass that it was from morning until evening that they called day; and this was the second time that they called night and day.
Abraham 4:9     And the Gods ordered, saying: Let the waters under the heaven be gathered together unto one place, and let the earth come up dry; and it was so as they ordered;
Abraham 4:10     And the Gods pronounced the dry land, Earth; and the gathering together of the waters, pronounced they, Great Waters; and the Gods saw that they were obeyed.
Abraham 4:11     And the Gods said: Let us prepare the earth to bring forth grass; the herb yielding seed; the fruit tree yielding fruit, after his kind, whose seed in itself yieldeth its own likeness upon the earth; and it was so, even as they ordered.
Abraham 4:12     And the Gods organized the earth to bring forth grass from its own seed, and the herb to bring forth herb from its own seed, yielding seed after his kind; and the earth to bring forth the tree from its own seed, yielding fruit, whose seed could only bring forth the same in itself, after his kind; and the Gods saw that they were obeyed.
Abraham 4:13     And it came to pass that they numbered the days; from the evening until the morning they called night; and it came to pass, from the morning until the evening they called day; and it was the third time.
Abraham 4:14     And the Gods organized the lights in the expanse of the heaven, and caused them to divide the day from the night; and organized them to be for signs and for seasons, and for days and for years;
Abraham 4:15     And organized them to be for lights in the expanse of the heaven to give light upon the earth; and it was so.
Abraham 4:16     And the Gods organized the two great lights, the greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night; with the lesser light they set the stars also;
Abraham 4:17     And the Gods set them in the expanse of the heavens, to give light upon the earth, and to rule over the day and over the night, and to cause to divide the light from the darkness.
Abraham 4:18     And the Gods watched those things which they had ordered until they obeyed.
Abraham 4:19     And it came to pass that it was from evening until morning that it was night; and it came to pass that it was from morning until evening that it was day; and it was the fourth time.
Abraham 4:20     And the Gods said: Let us prepare the waters to bring forth abundantly the moving creatures that have life; and the fowl, that they may fly above the earth in the open expanse of heaven.
Abraham 4:21     And the Gods prepared the waters that they might bring forth great whales, and every living creature that moveth, which the waters were to bring forth abundantly after their kind; and every winged fowl after their kind. And the Gods saw that they would be obeyed, and that their plan was good.
Abraham 4:22     And the Gods said: We will bless them, and cause them to be fruitful and multiply, and fill the waters in the seas or great waters; and cause the fowl to multiply in the earth.
Abraham 4:23     And it came to pass that it was from evening until morning that they called night; and it came to pass that it was from morning until evening that they called day; and it was the fifth time.
Abraham 4:24     And the Gods prepared the earth to bring forth the living creature after his kind, cattle and creeping things, and beasts of the earth after their kind; and it was so, as they had said.
Abraham 4:25     And the Gods organized the earth to bring forth the beasts after their kind, and cattle after their kind, and every thing that creepeth upon the earth after its kind; and the Gods saw they would obey.
Abraham 4:26     And the Gods took counsel among themselves and said: Let us go down and form man in our image, after our likeness; and we will give them dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth.
Abraham 4:27     So the Gods went down to organize man in their own image, in the image of the Gods to form they him, male and female to form they them.
Abraham 4:28     And the Gods said: We will bless them. And the Gods said: We will cause them to be fruitful and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it, and to have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth.
Abraham 4:29     And the Gods said: Behold, we will give them every herb bearing seed that shall come upon the face of all the earth, and every tree which shall have fruit upon it; yea, the fruit of the tree yielding seed to them we will give it; it shall be for their meat.
Abraham 4:30     And to every beast of the earth, and to every fowl of the air, and to every thing that creepeth upon the earth, behold, we will give them life, and also we will give to them every green herb for meat, and all these things shall be thus organized.
Abraham 4:31     And the Gods said: We will do everything that we have said, and organize them; and behold, they shall be very obedient. And it came to pass that it was from evening until morning they called night; and it came to pass that it was from morning until evening that they called day; and they numbered the sixth time.
Abraham 5:1     And thus we will finish the heavens and the earth, and all the hosts of them.
Abraham 5:2     And the Gods said among themselves: On the seventh time we will end our work, which we have counseled; and we will rest on the seventh time from all our work which we have counseled.
Abraham 5:3     And the Gods concluded upon the seventh time, because that on the seventh time they would rest from all their works which they (the Gods) counseled among themselves to form; and sanctified it. And thus were their decisions at the time that they counseled among themselves to form the heavens and the earth.
Abraham 5:4     And the Gods came down and formed these the generations of the heavens and of the earth, when they were formed in the day that the Gods formed the earth and the heavens,
Abraham 5:5     According to all that which they had said concerning every plant of the field before it was in the earth, and every herb of the field before it grew; for the Gods had not caused it to rain upon the earth when they counseled to do them, and had not formed a man to till the ground.
Abraham 5:6     But there went up a mist from the earth, and watered the whole face of the ground.
Abraham 5:7     And the Gods formed man from the dust of the ground, and took his spirit (that is, the man's spirit), and put it into him; and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living soul.
Abraham 5:8     And the Gods planted a garden, eastward in Eden, and there they put the man, whose spirit they had put into the body which they had formed.
Abraham 5:9     And out of the ground made the Gods to grow every tree that is pleasant to the sight and good for food; the tree of life, also, in the midst of the garden, and the tree of knowledge of good and evil.
Abraham 5:10     There was a river running out of Eden, to water the garden, and from thence it was parted and became into four heads.
Abraham 5:11     And the Gods took the man and put him in the Garden of Eden, to dress it and to keep it.
Abraham 5:12     And the Gods commanded the man, saying: Of every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat,
Abraham 5:13     But of the tree of knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it; for in the time that thou eatest thereof, thou shalt surely die. Now I, Abraham, saw that it was after the Lord's time, which was after the time of Kolob; for as yet the Gods had not appointed unto Adam his reckoning.
Abraham 5:14     And the Gods said: Let us make an help meet for the man, for it is not good that the man should be alone, therefore we will form an help meet for him.
Abraham 5:15     And the Gods caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam; and he slept, and they took one of his ribs, and closed up the flesh in the stead thereof;
Abraham 5:16     And of the rib which the Gods had taken from man, formed they a woman, and brought her unto the man.
Abraham 5:17     And Adam said: This was bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh; now she shall be called Woman, because she was taken out of man;
Abraham 5:18     Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife, and they shall be one flesh.
Abraham 5:19     And they were both naked, the man and his wife, and were not ashamed.
Abraham 5:20     And out of the ground the Gods formed every beast of the field, and every fowl of the air, and brought them unto Adam to see what he would call them; and whatsoever Adam called every living creature, that should be the name thereof.
Abraham 5:21     And Adam gave names to all cattle, to the fowl of the air, to every beast of the field; and for Adam, there was found an help meet for him.
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:1     For I say unto you, that ye shall not see me henceforth and know that I am he of whom it is written by the prophets, until ye shall say: Blessed is he who cometh in the name of the Lord, in the clouds of heaven, and all the holy angels with him. Then understood his disciples that he should come again on the earth, after that he was glorified and crowned on the right hand of God.
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:2     And Jesus went out, and departed from the temple; and his disciples came to him, for to hear him, saying: Master, show us concerning the buildings of the temple, as thou hast said--They shall be thrown down, and left unto you desolate.
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:3     And Jesus said unto them: See ye not all these things, and do ye not understand them? Verily I say unto you, there shall not be left here, upon this temple, one stone upon another that shall not be thrown down.
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:4     And Jesus left them, and went upon the Mount of Olives. And as he sat upon the Mount of Olives, the disciples came unto him privately, saying: Tell us when shall these things be which thou hast said concerning the destruction of the temple, and the Jews; and what is the sign of thy coming, and of the end of the world, or the destruction of the wicked, which is the end of the world?
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:5     And Jesus answered, and said unto them: Take heed that no man deceive you;
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:6     For many shall come in my name, saying--I am Christ--and shall deceive many;
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:7     Then shall they deliver you up to be afflicted, and shall kill you, and ye shall be hated of all nations, for my name's sake;
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:8     And then shall many be offended, and shall betray one another, and shall hate one another;
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:9     And many false prophets shall arise, and shall deceive many;
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:10     And because iniquity shall abound, the love of many shall wax cold;
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:11     But he that remaineth steadfast and is not overcome, the same shall be saved.
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:12     When you, therefore, shall see the abomination of desolation, spoken of by Daniel the prophet, concerning the destruction of Jerusalem, then you shall stand in the holy place; whoso readeth let him understand.
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:13     Then let them who are in Judea flee into the mountains;
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:14     Let him who is on the housetop flee, and not return to take anything out of his house;
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:15     Neither let him who is in the field return back to take his clothes;
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:16     And wo unto them that are with child, and unto them that give suck in those days;
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:17     Therefore, pray ye the Lord that your flight be not in the winter, neither on the Sabbath day;
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:18     For then, in those days, shall be great tribulation on the Jews, and upon the inhabitants of Jerusalem, such as was not before sent upon Israel, of God, since the beginning of their kingdom until this time; no, nor ever shall be sent again upon Israel.
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:19     All things which have befallen them are only the beginning of the sorrows which shall come upon them.
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:20     And except those days should be shortened, there should none of their flesh be saved; but for the elect's sake, according to the covenant, those days shall be shortened.
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:21     Behold, these things I have spoken unto you concerning the Jews; and again, after the tribulation of those days which shall come upon Jerusalem, if any man shall say unto you, Lo, here is Christ, or there, believe him not;
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:22     For in those days there shall also arise false Christs, and false prophets, and shall show great signs and wonders, insomuch, that, if possible, they shall deceive the very elect, who are the elect according to the covenant.
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:23     Behold, I speak these things unto you for the elect's sake; and you also shall hear of wars, and rumors of wars; see that ye be not troubled, for all I have told you must come to pass; but the end is not yet.
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:24     Behold, I have told you before;
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:25     Wherefore, if they shall say unto you: Behold, he is in the desert; go not forth: Behold, he is in the secret chambers; believe it not;
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:26     For as the light of the morning cometh out of the east, and shineth even unto the west, and covereth the whole earth, so shall also the coming of the Son of Man be.
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:27     And now I show unto you a parable. Behold, wheresoever the carcass is, there will the eagles be gathered together; so likewise shall mine elect be gathered from the four quarters of the earth.
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:28     And they shall hear of wars, and rumors of wars.
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:29     Behold I speak for mine elect's sake; for nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom; there shall be famines, and pestilences, and earthquakes, in divers places.
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:30     And again, because iniquity shall abound, the love of men shall wax cold; but he that shall not be overcome, the same shall be saved.
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:31     And again, this Gospel of the Kingdom shall be preached in all the world, for a witness unto all nations, and then shall the end come, or the destruction of the wicked;
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:32     And again shall the abomination of desolation, spoken of by Daniel the prophet, be fulfilled.
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:33     And immediately after the tribulation of those days, the sun shall be darkened, and the moon shall not give her light, and the stars shall fall from heaven, and the powers of heaven shall be shaken.
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:34     Verily, I say unto you, this generation, in which these things shall be shown forth, shall not pass away until all I have told you shall be fulfilled.
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:35     Although, the days will come, that heaven and earth shall pass away; yet my words shall not pass away, but all shall be fulfilled.
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:36     And, as I said before, after the tribulation of those days, and the powers of the heavens shall be shaken, then shall appear the sign of the Son of Man in heaven, and then shall all the tribes of the earth mourn; and they shall see the Son of Man coming in the clouds of heaven, with power and great glory;
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:37     And whoso treasureth up my word, shall not be deceived, for the Son of Man shall come, and he shall send his angels before him with the great sound of a trumpet, and they shall gather together the remainder of his elect from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other.
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:38     Now learn a parable of the fig tree--When its branches are yet tender, and it begins to put forth leaves, you know that summer is nigh at hand;
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:39     So likewise, mine elect, when they shall see all these things, they shall know that he is near, even at the doors;
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:40     But of that day, and hour, no one knoweth; no, not the angels of God in heaven, but my Father only.
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:41     But as it was in the days of Noah, so it shall be also at the coming of the Son of Man;
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:42     For it shall be with them, as it was in the days which were before the flood; for until the day that Noah entered into the ark they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage;
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:43     And knew not until the flood came, and took them all away; so shall also the coming of the Son of Man be.
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:44     Then shall be fulfilled that which is written, that in the last days, two shall be in the field, the one shall be taken, and the other left;
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:45     Two shall be grinding at the mill, the one shall be taken, and the other left;
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:46     And what I say unto one, I say unto all men; watch, therefore, for you know not at what hour your Lord doth come.
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:47     But know this, if the good man of the house had known in what watch the thief would come, he would have watched, and would not have suffered his house to have been broken up, but would have been ready.
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:48     Therefore be ye also ready, for in such an hour as ye think not, the Son of Man cometh.
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:49     Who, then, is a faithful and wise servant, whom his lord hath made ruler over his household, to give them meat in due season?
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:50     Blessed is that servant whom his lord, when he cometh, shall find so doing; and verily I say unto you, he shall make him ruler over all his goods.
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:51     But if that evil servant shall say in his heart: My lord delayeth his coming,
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:52     And shall begin to smite his fellow-servants, and to eat and drink with the drunken,
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:53     The lord of that servant shall come in a day when he looketh not for him, and in an hour that he is not aware of,
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:54     And shall cut him asunder, and shall appoint him his portion with the hypocrites; there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
Joseph Smith--Matthew 1:55     And thus cometh the end of the wicked, according to the prophecy of Moses, saying: They shall be cut off from among the people; but the end of the earth is not yet, but by and by.
Joseph Smith--History 1:1     Owing to the many reports which have been put in circulation by evil-disposed and designing persons, in relation to the rise and progress of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, all of which have been designed by the authors thereof to militate against its character as a Church and its progress in the world--I have been induced to write this history, to disabuse the public mind, and put all inquirers after truth in possession of the facts, as they have transpired, in relation both to myself and the Church, so far as I have such facts in my possession.
Joseph Smith--History 1:2     In this history I shall present the various events in relation to this Church, in truth and righteousness, as they have transpired, or as they at present exist, being now [1838] the eighth year since the organization of the said Church.
Joseph Smith--History 1:3     I was born in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and five, on the twenty-third day of December, in the town of Sharon, Windsor county, State of Vermont. ... My father, Joseph Smith, Sen., left the State of Vermont, and moved to Palmyra, Ontario (now Wayne) county, in the State of New York, when I was in my tenth year, or thereabouts. In about four years after my father's arrival in Palmyra, he moved with his family into Manchester in the same county of Ontario--
Joseph Smith--History 1:4     His family consisting of eleven souls, namely, my father, Joseph Smith; my mother, Lucy Smith (whose name, previous to her marriage, was Mack, daughter of Solomon Mack); my brothers, Alvin (who died November 19th, 1823, in the 26th year of his age), Hyrum, myself, Samuel Harrison, William, Don Carlos; and my sisters, Sophronia, Catherine, and Lucy.
Joseph Smith--History 1:5     Some time in the second year after our removal to Manchester, there was in the place where we lived an unusual excitement on the subject of religion. It commenced with the Methodists, but soon became general among all the sects in that region of country. Indeed, the whole district of country seemed affected by it, and great multitudes united themselves to the different religious parties, which created no small stir and division amongst the people, some crying, "Lo, here!" and others, "Lo, there!" Some were contending for the Methodist faith, some for the Presbyterian, and some for the Baptist.
Joseph Smith--History 1:6     For, notwithstanding the great love which the converts to these different faiths expressed at the time of their conversion, and the great zeal manifested by the respective clergy, who were active in getting up and promoting this extraordinary scene of religious feeling, in order to have everybody converted, as they were pleased to call it, let them join what sect they pleased; yet when the converts began to file off, some to one party and some to another, it was seen that the seemingly good feelings of both the priests and the converts were more pretended than real; for a scene of great confusion and bad feeling ensued--priest contending against priest, and convert against convert; so that all their good feelings one for another, if they ever had any, were entirely lost in a strife of words and a contest about opinions.
Joseph Smith--History 1:7     I was at this time in my fifteenth year. My father's family was proselyted to the Presbyterian faith, and four of them joined that church, namely, my mother, Lucy; my brothers Hyrum and Samuel Harrison; and my sister Sophronia.
Joseph Smith--History 1:8     During this time of great excitement my mind was called up to serious reflection and great uneasiness; but though my feelings were deep and often poignant, still I kept myself aloof from all these parties, though I attended their several meetings as often as occasion would permit. In process of time my mind became somewhat partial to the Methodist sect, and I felt some desire to be united with them; but so great were the confusion and strife among the different denominations, that it was impossible for a person young as I was, and so unacquainted with men and things, to come to any certain conclusion who was right and who was wrong.
Joseph Smith--History 1:9     My mind at times was greatly excited, the cry and tumult were so great and incessant. The Presbyterians were most decided against the Baptists and Methodists, and used all the powers of both reason and sophistry to prove their errors, or, at least, to make the people think they were in error. On the other hand, the Baptists and Methodists in their turn were equally zealous in endeavoring to establish their own tenets and disprove all others.
Joseph Smith--History 1:10     In the midst of this war of words and tumult of opinions, I often said to myself: What is to be done? Who of all these parties are right; or, are they all wrong together? If any one of them be right, which is it, and how shall I know it?
Joseph Smith--History 1:11     While I was laboring under the extreme difficulties caused by the contests of these parties of religionists, I was one day reading the Epistle of James, first chapter and fifth verse, which reads: If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him.
Joseph Smith--History 1:12     Never did any passage of scripture come with more power to the heart of man than this did at this time to mine. It seemed to enter with great force into every feeling of my heart. I reflected on it again and again, knowing that if any person needed wisdom from God, I did; for how to act I did not know, and unless I could get more wisdom than I then had, I would never know; for the teachers of religion of the different sects understood the same passages of scripture so differently as to destroy all confidence in settling the question by an appeal to the Bible.
Joseph Smith--History 1:13     At length I came to the conclusion that I must either remain in darkness and confusion, or else I must do as James directs, that is, ask of God. I at length came to the determination to "ask of God," concluding that if he gave wisdom to them that lacked wisdom, and would give liberally, and not upbraid, I might venture.
Joseph Smith--History 1:14     So, in accordance with this, my determination to ask of God, I retired to the woods to make the attempt. It was on the morning of a beautiful, clear day, early in the spring of eighteen hundred and twenty. It was the first time in my life that I had made such an attempt, for amidst all my anxieties I had never as yet made the attempt to pray vocally.
Joseph Smith--History 1:15     After I had retired to the place where I had previously designed to go, having looked around me, and finding myself alone, I kneeled down and began to offer up the desires of my heart to God. I had scarcely done so, when immediately I was seized upon by some power which entirely overcame me, and had such an astonishing influence over me as to bind my tongue so that I could not speak. Thick darkness gathered around me, and it seemed to me for a time as if I were doomed to sudden destruction.
Joseph Smith--History 1:16     But, exerting all my powers to call upon God to deliver me out of the power of this enemy which had seized upon me, and at the very moment when I was ready to sink into despair and abandon myself to destruction--not to an imaginary ruin, but to the power of some actual being from the unseen world, who had such marvelous power as I had never before felt in any being--just at this moment of great alarm, I saw a pillar of light exactly over my head, above the brightness of the sun, which descended gradually until it fell upon me.
Joseph Smith--History 1:17     It no sooner appeared than I found myself delivered from the enemy which held me bound. When the light rested upon me I saw two Personages, whose brightness and glory defy all description, standing above me in the air. One of them spake unto me, calling me by name and said, pointing to the other--This is My Beloved Son. Hear Him!
Joseph Smith--History 1:18     My object in going to inquire of the Lord was to know which of all the sects was right, that I might know which to join. No sooner, therefore, did I get possession of myself, so as to be able to speak, than I asked the Personages who stood above me in the light, which of all the sects was right (for at this time it had never entered into my heart that all were wrong)--and which I should join.
Joseph Smith--History 1:19     I was answered that I must join none of them, for they were all wrong; and the Personage who addressed me said that all their creeds were an abomination in his sight; that those professors were all corrupt; that: "they draw near to me with their lips, but their hearts are far from me, they teach for doctrines the commandments of men, having a form of godliness, but they deny the power thereof."
Joseph Smith--History 1:20     He again forbade me to join with any of them; and many other things did he say unto me, which I cannot write at this time. When I came to myself again, I found myself lying on my back, looking up into heaven. When the light had departed, I had no strength; but soon recovering in some degree, I went home. And as I leaned up to the fireplace, mother inquired what the matter was. I replied, "Never mind, all is well--I am well enough off." I then said to my mother, "I have learned for myself that Presbyterianism is not true." It seems as though the adversary was aware, at a very early period of my life, that I was destined to prove a disturber and an annoyer of his kingdom; else why should the powers of darkness combine against me? Why the opposition and persecution that arose against me, almost in my infancy?
Joseph Smith--History 1:21     Some few days after I had this vision, I happened to be in company with one of the Methodist preachers, who was very active in the before mentioned religious excitement; and, conversing with him on the subject of religion, I took occasion to give him an account of the vision which I had had. I was greatly surprised at his behavior; he treated my communication not only lightly, but with great contempt, saying it was all of the devil, that there were no such things as visions or revelations in these days; that all such things had ceased with the apostles, and that there would never be any more of them.
Joseph Smith--History 1:22     I soon found, however, that my telling the story had excited a great deal of prejudice against me among professors of religion, and was the cause of great persecution, which continued to increase; and though I was an obscure boy, only between fourteen and fifteen years of age, and my circumstances in life such as to make a boy of no consequence in the world, yet men of high standing would take notice sufficient to excite the public mind against me, and create a bitter persecution; and this was common among all the sects--all united to persecute me.
Joseph Smith--History 1:23     It caused me serious reflection then, and often has since, how very strange it was that an obscure boy, of a little over fourteen years of age, and one, too, who was doomed to the necessity of obtaining a scanty maintenance by his daily labor, should be thought a character of sufficient importance to attract the attention of the great ones of the most popular sects of the day, and in a manner to create in them a spirit of the most bitter persecution and reviling. But strange or not, so it was, and it was often the cause of great sorrow to myself.
Joseph Smith--History 1:24     However, it was nevertheless a fact that I had beheld a vision. I have thought since, that I felt much like Paul, when he made his defense before King Agrippa, and related the account of the vision he had when he saw a light, and heard a voice; but still there were but few who believed him; some said he was dishonest, others said he was mad; and he was ridiculed and reviled. But all this did not destroy the reality of his vision. He had seen a vision, he knew he had, and all the persecution under heaven could not make it otherwise; and though they should persecute him unto death, yet he knew, and would know to his latest breath, that he had both seen a light and heard a voice speaking unto him, and all the world could not make him think or believe otherwise.
Joseph Smith--History 1:25     So it was with me. I had actually seen a light, and in the midst of that light I saw two Personages, and they did in reality speak to me; and though I was hated and persecuted for saying that I had seen a vision, yet it was true; and while they were persecuting me, reviling me, and speaking all manner of evil against me falsely for so saying, I was led to say in my heart: Why persecute me for telling the truth? I have actually seen a vision; and who am I that I can withstand God, or why does the world think to make me deny what I have actually seen? For I had seen a vision; I knew it, and I knew that God knew it, and I could not deny it, neither dared I do it; at least I knew that by so doing I would offend God, and come under condemnation.
Joseph Smith--History 1:26     I had now got my mind satisfied so far as the sectarian world was concerned--that it was not my duty to join with any of them, but to continue as I was until further directed. I had found the testimony of James to be true--that a man who lacked wisdom might ask of God, and obtain, and not be upbraided.
Joseph Smith--History 1:27     I continued to pursue my common vocations in life until the twenty-first of September, one thousand eight hundred and twenty-three, all the time suffering severe persecution at the hands of all classes of men, both religious and irreligious, because I continued to affirm that I had seen a vision.
Joseph Smith--History 1:28     During the space of time which intervened between the time I had the vision and the year eighteen hundred and twenty-three--having been forbidden to join any of the religious sects of the day, and being of very tender years, and persecuted by those who ought to have been my friends and to have treated me kindly, and if they supposed me to be deluded to have endeavored in a proper and affectionate manner to have reclaimed me--I was left to all kinds of temptations; and, mingling with all kinds of society, I frequently fell into many foolish errors, and displayed the weakness of youth, and the foibles of human nature; which, I am sorry to say, led me into divers temptations, offensive in the sight of God. In making this confession, no one need suppose me guilty of any great or malignant sins. A disposition to commit such was never in my nature. But I was guilty of levity, and sometimes associated with jovial company, etc., not consistent with that character which ought to be maintained by one who was called of God as I had been. But this will not seem very strange to any one who recollects my youth, and is acquainted with my native cheery temperament.
Joseph Smith--History 1:29     In consequence of these things, I often felt condemned for my weakness and imperfections; when, on the evening of the above-mentioned twenty-first of September, after I had retired to my bed for the night, I betook myself to prayer and supplication to Almighty God for forgiveness of all my sins and follies, and also for a manifestation to me, that I might know of my state and standing before him; for I had full confidence in obtaining a divine manifestation, as I previously had one.
Joseph Smith--History 1:30     While I was thus in the act of calling upon God, I discovered a light appearing in my room, which continued to increase until the room was lighter than at noonday, when immediately a personage appeared at my bedside, standing in the air, for his feet did not touch the floor.
Joseph Smith--History 1:31     He had on a loose robe of most exquisite whiteness. It was a whiteness beyond anything earthly I had ever seen; nor do I believe that any earthly thing could be made to appear so exceedingly white and brilliant. His hands were naked, and his arms also, a little above the wrist; so, also, were his feet naked, as were his legs, a little above the ankles. His head and neck were also bare. I could discover that he had no other clothing on but this robe, as it was open, so that I could see into his bosom.
Joseph Smith--History 1:32     Not only was his robe exceedingly white, but his whole person was glorious beyond description, and his countenance truly like lightning. The room was exceedingly light, but not so very bright as immediately around his person. When I first looked upon him, I was afraid; but the fear soon left me.
Joseph Smith--History 1:33     He called me by name, and said unto me that he was a messenger sent from the presence of God to me, and that his name was Moroni; that God had a work for me to do; and that my name should be had for good and evil among all nations, kindreds, and tongues, or that it should be both good and evil spoken of among all people.
Joseph Smith--History 1:34     He said there was a book deposited, written upon gold plates, giving an account of the former inhabitants of this continent, and the source from whence they sprang. He also said that the fulness of the everlasting Gospel was contained in it, as delivered by the Savior to the ancient inhabitants;
Joseph Smith--History 1:35     Also, that there were two stones in silver bows--and these stones, fastened to a breastplate, constituted what is called the Urim and Thummim--deposited with the plates; and the possession and use of these stones were what constituted "seers" in ancient or former times; and that God had prepared them for the purpose of translating the book.
Joseph Smith--History 1:36     After telling me these things, he commenced quoting the prophecies of the Old Testament. He first quoted part of the third chapter of Malachi; and he quoted also the fourth or last chapter of the same prophecy, though with a little variation from the way it reads in our Bibles. Instead of quoting the first verse as it reads in our books, he quoted it thus:
Joseph Smith--History 1:37     For behold, the day cometh that shall burn as an oven, and all the proud, yea, and all that do wickedly shall burn as stubble; for they that come shall burn them, saith the Lord of Hosts, that it shall leave them neither root nor branch.
Joseph Smith--History 1:38     And again, he quoted the fifth verse thus: Behold, I will reveal unto you the Priesthood, by the hand of Elijah the prophet, before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord.
Joseph Smith--History 1:39     He also quoted the next verse differently: And he shall plant in the hearts of the children the promises made to the fathers, and the hearts of the children shall turn to their fathers. If it were not so, the whole earth would be utterly wasted at his coming.
Joseph Smith--History 1:40     In addition to these, he quoted the eleventh chapter of Isaiah, saying that it was about to be fulfilled. He quoted also the third chapter of Acts, twenty-second and twenty-third verses, precisely as they stand in our New Testament. He said that that prophet was Christ; but the day had not yet come when "they who would not hear his voice should be cut off from among the people," but soon would come.
Joseph Smith--History 1:41     He also quoted the second chapter of Joel, from the twenty-eighth verse to the last. He also said that this was not yet fulfilled, but was soon to be. And he further stated that the fulness of the Gentiles was soon to come in. He quoted many other passages of scripture, and offered many explanations which cannot be mentioned here.
Joseph Smith--History 1:42     Again, he told me, that when I got those plates of which he had spoken--for the time that they should be obtained was not yet fulfilled--I should not show them to any person; neither the breastplate with the Urim and Thummim; only to those to whom I should be commanded to show them; if I did I should be destroyed. While he was conversing with me about the plates, the vision was opened to my mind that I could see the place where the plates were deposited, and that so clearly and distinctly that I knew the place again when I visited it.
Joseph Smith--History 1:43     After this communication, I saw the light in the room begin to gather immediately around the person of him who had been speaking to me, and it continued to do so until the room was again left dark, except just around him; when, instantly I saw, as it were, a conduit open right up into heaven, and he ascended till he entirely disappeared, and the room was left as it had been before this heavenly light had made its appearance.
Joseph Smith--History 1:44     I lay musing on the singularity of the scene, and marveling greatly at what had been told to me by this extraordinary messenger; when, in the midst of my meditation, I suddenly discovered that my room was again beginning to get lighted, and in an instant, as it were, the same heavenly messenger was again by my bedside.
Joseph Smith--History 1:45     He commenced, and again related the very same things which he had done at his first visit, without the least variation; which having done, he informed me of great judgments which were coming upon the earth, with great desolations by famine, sword, and pestilence; and that these grievous judgments would come on the earth in this generation. Having related these things, he again ascended as he had done before.
Joseph Smith--History 1:46     By this time, so deep were the impressions made on my mind, that sleep had fled from my eyes, and I lay overwhelmed in astonishment at what I had both seen and heard. But what was my surprise when again I beheld the same messenger at my bedside, and heard him rehearse or repeat over again to me the same things as before; and added a caution to me, telling me that Satan would try to tempt me (in consequence of the indigent circumstances of my father's family), to get the plates for the purpose of getting rich. This he forbade me, saying that I must have no other object in view in getting the plates but to glorify God, and must not be influenced by any other motive than that of building his kingdom; otherwise I could not get them.
Joseph Smith--History 1:47     After this third visit, he again ascended into heaven as before, and I was again left to ponder on the strangeness of what I had just experienced; when almost immediately after the heavenly messenger had ascended from me for the third time, the cock crowed, and I found that day was approaching, so that our interviews must have occupied the whole of that night.
Joseph Smith--History 1:48     I shortly after arose from my bed, and, as usual, went to the necessary labors of the day; but, in attempting to work as at other times, I found my strength so exhausted as to render me entirely unable. My father, who was laboring along with me, discovered something to be wrong with me, and told me to go home. I started with the intention of going to the house; but, in attempting to cross the fence out of the field where we were, my strength entirely failed me, and I fell helpless on the ground, and for a time was quite unconscious of anything.
Joseph Smith--History 1:49     The first thing that I can recollect was a voice speaking unto me, calling me by name. I looked up, and beheld the same messenger standing over my head, surrounded by light as before. He then again related unto me all that he had related to me the previous night, and commanded me to go to my father and tell him of the vision and commandments which I had received.
Joseph Smith--History 1:50     I obeyed; I returned to my father in the field, and rehearsed the whole matter to him. He replied to me that it was of God, and told me to go and do as commanded by the messenger. I left the field, and went to the place where the messenger had told me the plates were deposited; and owing to the distinctness of the vision which I had had concerning it, I knew the place the instant that I arrived there.
Joseph Smith--History 1:51     Convenient to the village of Manchester, Ontario county, New York, stands a hill of considerable size, and the most elevated of any in the neighborhood. On the west side of this hill, not far from the top, under a stone of considerable size, lay the plates, deposited in a stone box. This stone was thick and rounding in the middle on the upper side, and thinner towards the edges, so that the middle part of it was visible above the ground, but the edge all around was covered with earth.
Joseph Smith--History 1:52     Having removed the earth, I obtained a lever, which I got fixed under the edge of the stone, and with a little exertion raised it up. I looked in, and there indeed did I behold the plates, the Urim and Thummim, and the breastplate, as stated by the messenger. The box in which they lay was formed by laying stones together in some kind of cement. In the bottom of the box were laid two stones crossways of the box, and on these stones lay the plates and the other things with them.
Joseph Smith--History 1:53     I made an attempt to take them out, but was forbidden by the messenger, and was again informed that the time for bringing them forth had not yet arrived, neither would it, until four years from that time; but he told me that I should come to that place precisely in one year from that time, and that he would there meet with me, and that I should continue to do so until the time should come for obtaining the plates.
Joseph Smith--History 1:54     Accordingly, as I had been commanded, I went at the end of each year, and at each time I found the same messenger there, and received instruction and intelligence from him at each of our interviews, respecting what the Lord was going to do, and how and in what manner his kingdom was to be conducted in the last days.
Joseph Smith--History 1:55     As my father's worldly circumstances were very limited, we were under the necessity of laboring with our hands, hiring out by day's work and otherwise, as we could get opportunity. Sometimes we were at home, and sometimes abroad, and by continuous labor were enabled to get a comfortable maintenance.
Joseph Smith--History 1:56     In the year 1823 my father's family met with a great affliction by the death of my eldest brother, Alvin. In the month of October, 1825, I hired with an old gentleman by the name of Josiah Stoal, who lived in Chenango county, State of New York. He had heard something of a silver mine having been opened by the Spaniards in Harmony, Susquehanna county, State of Pennsylvania; and had, previous to my hiring to him, been digging, in order, if possible, to discover the mine. After I went to live with him, he took me, with the rest of his hands, to dig for the silver mine, at which I continued to work for nearly a month, without success in our undertaking, and finally I prevailed with the old gentleman to cease digging after it. Hence arose the very prevalent story of my having been a money-digger.
Joseph Smith--History 1:57     During the time that I was thus employed, I was put to board with a Mr. Isaac Hale, of that place; it was there I first saw my wife (his daughter), Emma Hale. On the 18th of January, 1827, we were married, while I was yet employed in the service of Mr. Stoal.
Joseph Smith--History 1:58     Owing to my continuing to assert that I had seen a vision, persecution still followed me, and my wife's father's family were very much opposed to our being married. I was, therefore, under the necessity of taking her elsewhere; so we went and were married at the house of Squire Tarbill, in South Bainbridge, Chenango county, New York. Immediately after my marriage, I left Mr. Stoal's, and went to my father's, and farmed with him that season.
Joseph Smith--History 1:59     At length the time arrived for obtaining the plates, the Urim and Thummim, and the breastplate. On the twenty-second day of September, one thousand eight hundred and twenty-seven, having gone as usual at the end of another year to the place where they were deposited, the same heavenly messenger delivered them up to me with this charge: that I should be responsible for them; that if I should let them go carelessly, or through any neglect of mine, I should be cut off; but that if I would use all my endeavors to preserve them, until he, the messenger, should call for them, they should be protected.
Joseph Smith--History 1:60     I soon found out the reason why I had received such strict charges to keep them safe, and why it was that the messenger had said that when I had done what was required at my hand, he would call for them. For no sooner was it known that I had them, than the most strenuous exertions were used to get them from me. Every stratagem that could be invented was resorted to for that purpose. The persecution became more bitter and severe than before, and multitudes were on the alert continually to get them from me if possible. But by the wisdom of God, they remained safe in my hands, until I had accomplished by them what was required at my hand. When, according to arrangements, the messenger called for them, I delivered them up to him; and he has them in his charge until this day, being the second day of May, one thousand eight hundred and thirty-eight.
Joseph Smith--History 1:61     The excitement, however, still continued, and rumor with her thousand tongues was all the time employed in circulating falsehoods about my father's family, and about myself. If I were to relate a thousandth part of them, it would fill up volumes. The persecution, however, became so intolerable that I was under the necessity of leaving Manchester, and going with my wife to Susquehanna county, in the State of Pennsylvania. While preparing to start--being very poor, and the persecution so heavy upon us that there was no probability that we would ever be otherwise--in the midst of our afflictions we found a friend in a gentleman by the name of Martin Harris, who came to us and gave me fifty dollars to assist us on our journey. Mr. Harris was a resident of Palmyra township, Wayne county, in the State of New York, and a farmer of respectability.
Joseph Smith--History 1:62     By this timely aid was I enabled to reach the place of my destination in Pennsylvania; and immediately after my arrival there I commenced copying the characters off the plates. I copied a considerable number of them, and by means of the Urim and Thummim I translated some of them, which I did between the time I arrived at the house of my wife's father, in the month of December, and the February following.
Joseph Smith--History 1:63     Sometime in this month of February, the aforementioned Mr. Martin Harris came to our place, got the characters which I had drawn off the plates, and started with them to the city of New York. For what took place relative to him and the characters, I refer to his own account of the circumstances, as he related them to me after his return, which was as follows:
Joseph Smith--History 1:64     "I went to the city of New York, and presented the characters which had been translated, with the translation thereof, to Professor Charles Anthon, a gentleman celebrated for his literary attainments. Professor Anthon stated that the translation was correct, more so than any he had before seen translated from the Egyptian. I then showed him those which were not yet translated, and he said that they were Egyptian, Chaldaic, Assyriac, and Arabic; and he said they were true characters. He gave me a certificate, certifying to the people of Palmyra that they were true characters, and that the translation of such of them as had been translated was also correct. I took the certificate and put it into my pocket, and was just leaving the house, when Mr. Anthon called me back, and asked me how the young man found out that there were gold plates in the place where he found them. I answered that an angel of God had revealed it unto him.
Joseph Smith--History 1:65     "He then said to me, 'Let me see that certificate.' I accordingly took it out of my pocket and gave it to him, when he took it and tore it to pieces, saying that there was no such thing now as ministering of angels, and that if I would bring the plates to him he would translate them. I informed him that part of the plates were sealed, and that I was forbidden to bring them. He replied, 'I cannot read a sealed book.' I left him and went to Dr. Mitchell, who sanctioned what Professor Anthon had said respecting both the characters and the translation."
Joseph Smith--History 1:66     On the 5th day of April, 1829, Oliver Cowdery came to my house, until which time I had never seen him. He stated to me that having been teaching school in the neighborhood where my father resided, and my father being one of those who sent to the school, he went to board for a season at his house, and while there the family related to him the circumstances of my having received the plates, and accordingly he had come to make inquiries of me.
Joseph Smith--History 1:67     Two days after the arrival of Mr. Cowdery (being the 7th of April) I commenced to translate the Book of Mormon, and he began to write for me.
Joseph Smith--History 1:68     We still continued the work of translation, when, in the ensuing month (May, 1829), we on a certain day went into the woods to pray and inquire of the Lord respecting baptism for the remission of sins, that we found mentioned in the translation of the plates. While we were thus employed, praying and calling upon the Lord, a messenger from heaven descended in a cloud of light, and having laid his hands upon us, he ordained us, saying:
Joseph Smith--History 1:69     Upon you my fellow servants, in the name of Messiah, I confer the Priesthood of Aaron, which holds the keys of the ministering of angels, and of the gospel of repentance, and of baptism by immersion for the remission of sins; and this shall never be taken again from the earth until the sons of Levi do offer again an offering unto the Lord in righteousness.
Joseph Smith--History 1:70     He said this Aaronic Priesthood had not the power of laying on hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost, but that this should be conferred on us hereafter; and he commanded us to go and be baptized, and gave us directions that I should baptize Oliver Cowdery, and that afterwards he should baptize me.
Joseph Smith--History 1:71     Accordingly we went and were baptized. I baptized him first, and afterwards he baptized me--after which I laid my hands upon his head and ordained him to the Aaronic Priesthood, and afterwards he laid his hands on me and ordained me to the same Priesthood--for so we were commanded.
Joseph Smith--History 1:72     The messenger who visited us on this occasion and conferred this Priesthood upon us, said that his name was John, the same that is called John the Baptist in the New Testament, and that he acted under the direction of Peter, James and John, who held the keys of the Priesthood of Melchizedek, which Priesthood, he said, would in due time be conferred on us, and that I should be called the first Elder of the Church, and he (Oliver Cowdery) the second. It was on the fifteenth day of May, 1829, that we were ordained under the hand of this messenger, and baptized.
Joseph Smith--History 1:73     Immediately on our coming up out of the water after we had been baptized, we experienced great and glorious blessings from our Heavenly Father. No sooner had I baptized Oliver Cowdery, than the Holy Ghost fell upon him, and he stood up and prophesied many things which should shortly come to pass. And again, so soon as I had been baptized by him, I also had the spirit of prophecy, when, standing up, I prophesied concerning the rise of this Church, and many other things connected with the Church, and this generation of the children of men. We were filled with the Holy Ghost, and rejoiced in the God of our salvation.
Joseph Smith--History 1:74     Our minds being now enlightened, we began to have the scriptures laid open to our understandings, and the true meaning and intention of their more mysterious passages revealed unto us in a manner which we never could attain to previously, nor ever before had thought of. In the meantime we were forced to keep secret the circumstances of having received the Priesthood and our having been baptized, owing to a spirit of persecution which had already manifested itself in the neighborhood.
Joseph Smith--History 1:75     We had been threatened with being mobbed, from time to time, and this, too, by professors of religion. And their intentions of mobbing us were only counteracted by the influence of my wife's father's family (under Divine providence), who had become very friendly to me, and who were opposed to mobs, and were willing that I should be allowed to continue the work of translation without interruption; and therefore offered and promised us protection from all unlawful proceedings, as far as in them lay.
Articles of Faith 1:1     We believe in God, the Eternal Father, and in His Son, Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost.
Articles of Faith 1:2     We believe that men will be punished for their own sins, and not for Adam's transgression.
Articles of Faith 1:3     We believe that through the Atonement of Christ, all mankind may be saved, by obedience to the laws and ordinances of the Gospel.
Articles of Faith 1:4     We believe that the first principles and ordinances of the Gospel are: first, Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ; second, Repentance; third, Baptism by immersion for the remission of sins; fourth, Laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost.
Articles of Faith 1:5     We believe that a man must be called of God, by prophecy, and by the laying on of hands by those who are in authority, to preach the Gospel and administer in the ordinances thereof.
Articles of Faith 1:6     We believe in the same organization that existed in the Primitive Church, namely, apostles, prophets, pastors, teachers, evangelists, and so forth.
Articles of Faith 1:7     We believe in the gift of tongues, prophecy, revelation, visions, healing, interpretation of tongues, and so forth.
Articles of Faith 1:8     We believe the Bible to be the word of God as far as it is translated correctly; we also believe the Book of Mormon to be the word of God.
Articles of Faith 1:9     We believe all that God has revealed, all that He does now reveal, and we believe that He will yet reveal many great and important things pertaining to the Kingdom of God.
Articles of Faith 1:10     We believe in the literal gathering of Israel and in the restoration of the Ten Tribes; that Zion (the New Jerusalem) will be built upon the American continent; that Christ will reign personally upon the earth; and, that the earth will be renewed and receive its paradisiacal glory.
Articles of Faith 1:11     We claim the privilege of worshiping Almighty God according to the dictates of our own conscience, and allow all men the same privilege, let them worship how, where, or what they may.
Articles of Faith 1:12     We believe in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers, and magistrates, in obeying, honoring, and sustaining the law.
Articles of Faith 1:13     We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in doing good to all men; indeed, we may say that we follow the admonition of Paul--We believe all things, we hope all things, we have endured many things, and hope to be able to endure all things. If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy, we seek after these things.
